Industry Canada      Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI)                   Work and Technology Program
Technological Change and                     the Organization of Work
François Lapointe
Laval                          October 6, 1995
This report was prepared in connection with work carried out by Centre for Information  Technology Innovation (CITI) of Industry Canada.
The views expressed in the report are  those of the author.
Une version française est également disponible.
= Copyright Industry Canada 1996
N° catalogue Co28-1/127-1996E
N° ISBN 0-662-24298-X
Table of Contents
1.
Introduction: Context and Challenges
1
2.
Technological Change as a Global Process: An Example
. . . 4
2.1
The Organizational Context
. . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2.2
Laying the Groundwork for Change
. . . . . . . . 6
2.3
Designing Change
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.4
Implementing the Solutions Developed
. . . . . . . 10
2.5
Follow-up
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
3.
The Issues Involved in Technological Change in Organizations:    Some Theoretical Signposts
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
4.
A Contextualistic Approach to Assessment
. 17
4.1
General Description
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
4.2
Strategy for Applying This Approach
. . . . . . . 20
4.3
Assessment Methods
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
5.
Levels of Intervention
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
5.1
Contextualistic Design
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
5.2
Assessment of Implementation
. . . . . . . . . . . 32
5.3
Follow-up (Assessment of System Use)
. . . . . . . 37
6.
Conclusion
. 40
Bibliography
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Acknowledgments
The author wishes to express his gratitude to his colleagues in the Work and Technology  program including David Tippin, Richard Lavoie, Duncan Sanderson, Anne-Marie  Tessier and, in particular, Judith Légaré for their invaluable contribution to this paper.
Their comments, advice and suggestions were highly significant and greatly appreciated.
1.
Introduction: Context and Challenges
The issue of technological change in the workplace is nothing new.
Since the early days of  the industrial age, the development of technological tools (mechanization and automation)  has ushered in different forms of work.
As can be seen from the history of industrialization,  the implementation of technological innovations occurs in conjunction with or is followed  by the emergence of new ways of organizing and managing work.
The mechanization and  automation of work processes in the manufacturing industry have been governed  successively by mass production, Taylorism and Fordism.
In industrial societies, new  methods of organization have had an enormous impact not only on business organizations,  but also on the quality of life at work and the fabric of society as a whole.
For example,  they have made it possible for industrial societies to substantially increase their production  and consumption capacities, just as they have been the source of profound social tensions  related primarily to worker obsolescence, unequal distribution of wealth, and the  profoundly hierarchical organization of the work environment.
While we are still not far enough removed from the situation to observe the true impact,  many observers (notably, Bergquist 1993 and Minc 1993) believe that we are undergoing  yet another period of radical transformation, stemming largely from the evolution of  technologies and of the ways in which work is organized.
A number of emerging trends  suggest the decentralization of organizational structures and of the organization of work.
These trends are reflected above all in the growing autonomy of an ever-increasing number  of workers (e.g., the move toward replacing salaried employees by self-employed workers,  the downsizing of large organizations in favour of outsourcing, etc.).
Concurrently with  this radical organizational restructuring, we are witnessing what seems to be the virtual  disappearance of the traditional structures within these organizations and the emergence of  dynamic processes as the new mechanisms of organizational cohesion.
Information and  communications technologies are playing an important role in these organizational  transformations.
The central question underlying this issue of technological change is how to integrate  change into organizations and into work content and the way work is organized, but above  all into the practices of those who must perform the work.
We often allude to the  "resistance to change" that is prevalent among large segments of society, including  workers, as being reactionary or unwarranted.
In actual fact, however, this resistance may  simply indicate that they have not yet become competent in handling the change, which is  often presented as an unfortunate inevitability over which there is no control.
While it is  true that the social and economic structures of our society make certain trends inevitable,  and that organizations are obliged to maintain a certain cruising speed in terms of  development, nothing precludes our exercising some control over the way in which we  perceive such changes.
In fact, there may well be ways of facilitating change and improving  efficiency, as it pertains not only to how the technologies are used, but also to work  processes and the quality of life in the workplace.
Technological change is a global process in that it affects many different aspects of work,  the organization and life in the workplace.
The chances of benefiting from such change are  therefore considerably increased if there are mutual adjustments made in both the new  technology and all these other areas.
To facilitate the adjustment process, we recommend  introducing follow-up mechanisms that are designed to open and maintain information  channels between management and operational staff. This points to the need for a global,  long-term approach for managing technological change.
We therefore propose an  assessment/intervention approach based on cooperation between the different players  involved in the process of change, beginning with the intended users of the newly  introduced technology.
The purpose of such a strategy is to cultivate an overall  understanding of the issues involved in technological change in the workplace.
The approach and methods presented here were developed on the basis of several applied  research projects conducted over the last five years by the Centre for Information  Technology Innovation (CITI), and by its Work and Technology program in particular.
The  objective is to understand and assess the process of technological change and to identify  means of ensuring more effective and less costly implementation that is better tailored to  the particular needs of the organizations involved.
Bearing this in mind, we will now  attempt to show how these research tools can be adapted to a new perspective on  management and intervention within the context of technological change.
This paper is not intended as a tool for the initiated nor as a management handbook.
Rather  it addresses anyone interested in the question of technological change in the workplace, be  they managers, consultants, union representatives, users, or others.
It therefore seeks to  shed some light on the process of technological change in the workplace and on the  challenges connected with it.
More specifically, it examines the question of how such  change should be tackled by looking at a crucial yet often-overlooked factor: the  adjustment that must take place between the technology, the organization and all its  employees.
Using a fictitious example derived from several case studies, we will begin by illustrating  how the intervention strategies we propose can be applied.
This example will help identify  several elements that will enable us to define our viewpoint on the issue of technological  change within organizations.
We will then describe some of the methods that can be used  to apply a global management approach for implementing technological change.
The paper  will conclude with a look at why and how we promote a design, implementation, and  management process that is based on the involvement of all those affected by the change,   beginning with front-line users.
2.
Technological Change As a Global Process: An Example
The literature has already shown that it is not simply technology per se that enables an  organization increase its productivity and effectiveness.
Rather it is the organization's  capacity to integrate technology into its own particular context, in keeping with the modus  operandi, knowledge, and work cultures of its employees (Orlikowski 1992; Davies and  Mitchell 1994).
Taking an interest in the implications of technological change in the  workplace implies to a large extent looking at the interaction between the technology as a  work tool and the organization as a social context.
In other words, any one technology may  have different impacts and implications; it may sometimes facilitate and at other times  impede organizational transformations, depending on how it is implemented that is,  according to the management philosophy that accompanies the change.
To delineate our approach more clearly, we shall begin by describing how a technological  change might be introduced within a fictitious organization.
While this scenario may at  times seem somewhat idealistic and overly simplistic, it should be borne in mind that our  goal is not so much to duplicate reality in detail (which in any case varies considerably from  one organization to the next), but rather to provide a rough picture that will highlight some  of the characteristics of the change-management approach put forth in this paper.
Though  inspired by the results of applied research, our example is essentially fictitious.
Any  resemblance that it may bear to any existing company is purely coincidental.
2.1
The Organizational Context
INC Inc. is a firm with just under fifty employees. It has been in business for some twenty  years in the field of communications.
Many of its activities involve designing and producing  corporate information documents, such as advertising materials, pamphlets, activity reports  and public relations documents, for a wide range of companies.
The production of such  materials calls into play a variety of skills.
In addition to office and administrative staff, INC  employs graphic artists, specialists in computer graphics design and marketing, writers and  translators.
Approximately three-quarters of INC's activities are carried out by in-house  staff, and the remainder is outsourced to self-employed freelancers who work mainly from  home.
Technology plays an important part in INC operations in that all its products are developed  by means of computer tools.
However, the firm's performance and the quality of its  products depend above all on the skills, expertise and motivation of its staff.
Moreover,  anyone who has talked with the employees who are directly involved in the production  process will attest to the great pride they take in the quality of their work.
Clearly, what  motivates INC employees its writers or translators, for instance to invest considerable  time and energy in their work is largely the opportunity to contribute to the production of  distinctive, high-end products that reflect the creativity and personal commitment of nearly  all those who have been part of the production process.
Cognizant of this fact, INC's senior executives have gradually developed a management  approach based on the involvement of the entire staff.
It began with the recognition a few  years ago that staff turnover was high and organizational performance less than optimal.
After scrutinizing operations, the firm's upper management succeeded in identifying a  number of problems.
The different professional groups were aware only of the segment of  work requiring their particular skills; no one had a clear overview of the projects on which  they worked.
The result was poor communication among the various people involved, a  factor that often led to delays, which were also attributable to a poor understanding of  client needs on the part of those designing and writing the material requested by the clients.
Moreover, it became apparent that a number of employees had limited knowledge of the  technologies available to them.
These technologies were either greatly underused or poorly  used, resulting in a poorer quality product and slower production time.
In light of this situation, the firm's management sought to reorganize the work in terms of  multidisciplinary teams, all of whose members were kept abreast of each other's work,  including client relations.
The home-based freelancers were also involved in the process  from a distance by means of a multi-site communication and collaboration process.
All the  employees working on a given project were consulted in order to develop specifications  and proposals to be submitted to the client, and everyone's skills were called into play  throughout the process. As a result, the end products were better adapted to the client's  needs.
Every individual was regarded as being partly responsible for the outcome of the  entire work process.
Quality control generally pre-empted direct overseeing as a form of  supervision.
Important decisions, major orientations and the methods of organizing work  were thereafter discussed with the individuals involved.
This organizational philosophy was  applied to both the choice and management of technologies, including training employees  and updating their technical knowledge.
2.2
Laying the Groundwork for Change
Step 1:
Identifying Problems and Possible Solutions
Like many enterprises, INC was facing fierce competition that obliged it at the very least to  maintain a certain volume and quality of production, while seeking measures to cut  operational costs.
With a view to identifying different possible solutions to these problems,  management undertook a work process audit, largely through consultation with its  employees.
The consultation process was carried out by the head of human resources.
This  person met with groups from each category of employees, asking them to give detailed  descriptions of the different tasks and operations involved in their work, and to identify the  most important aspects, as well as those they regarded as the most interesting, the most  constraining, the most time-consuming, and so forth.
He also used the opportunity to ask  the employees to identify any changes or improvements they would like to see in their  work, as well as anything they would not like to see changed.
The freelancers who did  regular work for INC were also consulted, either through informal interviews with the head  of human resources or through short questionnaires that were mailed out.
This consultation process made it possible to pinpoint a number of problems that, if solved,  might allow for both economies of scale and improved performance and quality of work.
Two types of interventions stood out as promising and feasible:
(1)
A great deal of time was normally spent on terminology research, a major            part of the work carried out by the writers and translators who worked for            INC.
In fact, unlike their freelance colleagues who write and translate in            highly specialized fields (e.g., in the aeronautics industry), INC's writers and            translators were called upon to work mainly as generalists.
They had to            continually familiarize themselves with new, specialized terminologies,            which obliged them to spend considerable time in the documentation centre            consulting terminology databases, as well as specialized dictionaries and            lexicons.
The employees concerned suggested looking into the possibility of            developing computer tools that would facilitate and speed up their research.
(2)
INC employees frequently had to work in collaboration with freelancers to            carry out certain types of projects.
This involved providing the freelancers            with information and instructions pertaining to the tasks they had been given            and offering them support in their work (e.g., by giving them advice or            making suggestions on their drafts).
Often in this collaborative process, both            parties spent a considerable amount of time waiting for information or            redoing portions of the work because of insufficient information or            misinterpretation of the information provided.
Furthermore, in order to do            their work well, freelancers often required quick access to a wide range of            information.
The two main reasons for this were (1) the need for them to            produce texts very quickly, a factor that left them little leeway in preparing            their work, and (2) the fact that, because they were not on the premises,            they lacked access to a host of information that circulated informally within            the company.
There was therefore a clear need to improve communication            links between the home-based freelancers and INC's employees by            developing faster means of exchanging information on an ongoing basis.
Step 2:
Preparing to Act
In order to explore the feasibility and profitability of the suggestions made, management  formed a working group comprising the head of human resources (responsible for training  and professional development), the head of computer services (technical support, selection  and installation of equipment), as well as two employee representatives (volunteers).
If  more extensive changes or changes that required speedy implementation had been involved,  specialized consultants would have been brought in, but in this instance, the skills available  within the firm were adequate to launch the process.
During an initial meeting, the members of the working group agreed to dedicate a few  hours a week (anywhere from two to five hours, according to each person's  responsibilities) to trying to come up with concrete solutions to the problems that had been  identified.
An inventory was drawn up of the available technological tools designed to  assist in the writing and translation processes. Different possibilities (technologies and  methods of organization) for improving communication between freelancers and the firm  were investigated, and information was gathered on operations and procedures used in  other work environments where comparable tasks were performed.
The group members also agreed that they would reconvene for one hour each week to  report back on what they had each accomplished.
The outcome of these meetings was the  drafting of very short memos (only a few lines each) intended to update management and  all other personnel on the progress being made.
Moreover, a suggestion box was installed  on the premises to give all employees the opportunity to share their ideas or ask questions  about the group's work.
INC freelancers were also asked to take part, either by electronic  mail or by using the suggestion box when they happened to be at the INC office.
After a few weeks of research and consultation, the working group succeeded in identifying  possible solutions to be explored at the two levels targeted for intervention.
In both cases,  the proposed solutions appeared to involve both technological and organizational change.
With regard to tools to assist in the tasks of writing and translation, the possibility was  raised of integrating computer tools directly into the writers' and translators' workstations  to allow them to carry out their terminology research with greater ease and efficiency.
Regarding communication with INC freelancers, the consultations held with them and the  employees with whom they interacted led to the study of different scenarios, and ultimately  resulted in the suggestion that network links and different communication procedures be  set up between INC and its freelancers.
Having established possible solutions and avenues to pursue, the next step was to  concretely implement and validate the proposed changes.
2.3
Designing Change
With clearly defined needs in mind, the next step was to determine the most appropriate  means of meeting these needs, whether by introducing new technologies or new ways of  organizing work, depending on the particular context at INC.
The aim was not simply to  develop solutions tailored to the organization's specific needs, but also to reduce the time  needed to ensure optimal use of the technologies and organizational forms that were to be  implemented.
The working group first prepared a draft of the specifications to be used in choosing and  adapting the new technologies and adaptations, and defined the organizational strategies to  be adopted, both on the basis of the information gathered so far with respect to the  following:
· the profile of the individuals targeted by the changes (their technical knowledge         and work culture, including considerations such as writers' and translators'         concern for quality);
· the work to be carried out (multidisciplinary teamwork requiring great creativity         and a thorough knowledge of client needs, and the freelancers' need for fast         access to a wide variety of information);
· the particular needs of the organization (management based on cooperation and         the involvement of all staff, and the need for better distribution of information,         both in-house and among all external collaborators).
Regarding INC's writers and translators, a decision was made to integrate directly into  their workstation, tools that would assist them in their writing tasks, such as an  "intelligent" spell checker, verb conjugation software, and a database on CD-ROM.
In  addition, an in-house software program was developed to help them quickly prepare  terminology files adapted to INC's needs.
The terminology database would be added to by  all INC employees during the course of their duties.
All these tools were put on a network  so that they would be available to everyone, including freelancers.
In an effort to improve communication with its freelancers, INC decided to loan each of  them a modem for the duration of their contract.
The contract would be the vehicle for  specifying methods and procedures for exchanging information in this new context.
Together, the introduction of a network and of mechanisms designed to facilitate  collaboration would, it was hoped, lead to the emergence of a work process with a stronger  iterative component.
These specifications provided the basic information needed to begin the work of  development per se.
To support the process, a firm specialized in system development was  hired to choose and integrate the technologies best adapted to the specifications that had  been defined in light of the needs identified in-house.
The same firm was given the mandate  of carrying out the necessary development and adaptation activities, as well as devising the  technical training required by the users.
It was understood that these outside consultants  would work in collaboration with the in-house working group.
To initiate the process, the next step was to develop prototypes of the proposed  technological tools and methods of organization.
These were then tested in a real context  and were modified or improved upon as required in light of consultations and information  gathered from the users involved, managers and other employees.
This feedback process  was ensured by means of user interviews conducted by members of the working group.
The  net result was the implementation of solutions based on compromises that had been worked  out among the various viewpoints expressed during the test period.
Following discussions with the outside consultants and based on their own previously  acquired knowledge of the changes to be effected, the working group and management  reached an agreement to allow this prototyping phase to continue over a period of three  months, with the option of slightly prolonging or shortening the process, depending on the  headway being made.
The proposed changes were then implemented on a small-scale trial  basis with two writers and two freelancers, who were each asked to spend 20% of their  work time trying out the new work tools and methods and to report back to members of  the working group and the consultants.
The information gathered was used to refine the  solutions developed prior to their implementation in the target sectors.
2.4
Implementing the Solutions Developed
Once the proposed technologies and methods of organization had been appropriately  refined and tested with small groups, preparations were made to implement them with all  the freelancers and employees concerned.
The trials conducted during the design phase  made it possible to develop a training approach that was adapted to the needs of the  individuals involved, as well as to identify ways of integrating these changes into the  existing work processes.
The firm was nevertheless fully aware that once applied  throughout the organization, these changes might have a different impact than during the  trials involving only a few people.
Moreover, past experience has shown that the learning  and adaptations imposed by improvised change may translate into drops in productivity,  which, though temporary, are nonetheless costly.
In order to minimize this adjustment  requirement, management asked the working group to continue its follow-up efforts in  order to evaluate the progress of the implementation process and to propose corrective  measures as required.
It was agreed that the members of the working group would spend  approximately half a day per week on evaluating the implementation of the changes.
It seemed from the small-scale trial conducted during the design phase that the  implementation of the desired changes would necessitate a period of learning and  adaptation lasting about ten weeks.
It was of course agreed that should any serious  problems arise along the way, implementation would be delayed until the problems were  resolved.
At that stage, assessment consisted in meeting twice with all the employees and  freelancers involved, once at the beginning of the implementation period and again at the  end.
These meetings were held either with individuals or with groups of five people,  depending on each person's availability, and led to semi-structured interviews lasting about  one hour on the topic of the progress being made in implementing, adapting to and learning  about the changes.
Mid-way through the implementation phase, a short questionnaire was  distributed to all those involved in order to identify any problems that might have arisen.
In  addition, all employees were encouraged to keep the working group informed at all times  of their comments and suggestions regarding possible improvements to the technologies  and work processes being implemented.
Analysis of the outcomes of these different  consultations made it possible to identify any adaptations that needed to be made to the  technologies and methods of organization, or to the process of implementation itself (user  training and support).
For example, assessment made it apparent that the implementation of the terminology file  and the database on CD-ROM yielded much more significant results for the writers and  translators employed by INC than it did for the freelancers performing the same tasks.
These differences were reflected in levels of satisfaction and performance as well as  learning.
The information gathered by the working group revealed that these discrepancies  in the use of the new technologies depended largely on contextual factors, namely,  differences in the conditions governing work and production.
As mentioned earlier, INC's freelancers were writers or translators who specialized in  particular fields, whereas its employees tended to be generalists.
The need to conduct  terminology research is more pronounced among the latter, who are less familiar with  specialized vocabularies.
INC's employees were therefore highly motivated to invest time  and effort in learning how to use tools that would facilitate their work and improve the  quality of their products.
In contrast, the freelancers found these tools to be less useful.
Furthermore, their tenuous status with the company meant that they were often under great  pressure to produce results within very short time frames, and they were thus less inclined  to invest time in learning that would only have impact in the medium or long term.
On the  other hand, the hardware and logistics for facilitating communication between the different  INC employees and the freelancers was readily welcomed by the latter, who felt they were  being offered better support in their work, which in turn meant that they were not obliged  to spend such long hours doing additional research or validating their choices regarding the  way they chose to orient their products.
At this stage, assessment made it possible not only to resolve problems pertaining to system  refinements, training content and network-management task distribution, but also to  identify the limitations and potential of the technological and organizational solutions  envisaged.
The differences that emerged between the employees and freelancers illustrate  the close correlation between the context in which a change is implemented, the conditions  under which a new technology is used and the potential results of this change (including the  technological aspect).
2.5
Follow-up
Once the change had been implemented, problems resolved and the main adjustments  made, the working group ended the assessment phase as such.
However, INC's  management agreed with members of the working group that the group should not be  disbanded.
In fact, although no longer needed as intensively as during the design and  implementation phases, it was acknowledged that the group still had an important role to  play in terms of internal communication and problem prevention.
It became apparent during the different phases of assessment that new collaborative  strategies or ways of working together had grown out of the improved communication with  the freelancers.
In addition, the writers and translators employed by INC developed new  strategies for using their work tools as they learned to master the different capabilities.
In  other words, even once a change has been implemented, the situation is not static.
It  continually evolves in response to the work environment, the knowledge of the people who  are applying it, the way in which the technologies are used, the work content and the  different adjustments made to ensure congruence with surrounding organizational forms.
This observation led INC to conclude that it would be worthwhile to conduct periodic  assessments of how the organization was using the new technologies and work processes.
It was thought that periodic assessments would minimize the time and resources required  to identify problems and prepare for change.
It was therefore agreed that the members of the working group would set aside the  equivalent of two days per quarter to assess how the new technologies were being used and  what progress was being made with respect to work processes.
To this end, employees and  freelancers alike were therefore asked to keep a log of any usage problems they  encountered and of their suggestions on ways to enhance the technologies and the  organization of their work.
The working group was responsible for analyzing the content of  the logs and compiling the information and suggestions made in order to integrate them  into future improvements or changes to be made in the existing systems.
The assessment  process would also include informal consultations between members of the working group  and employees and freelancers.
Problems were thus prevented from arising because of the  ongoing sharing of information on activity progress and any adjustments needed to keep up  with changes in context or methods of use.
This periodic assessment process enabled INC to identify very quickly the impacts of the  changes that had been introduced.
The vast discrepancies between the in-house writers and  translators' mastery of the terminology support software and that of their freelance  counterparts made it clear that it is not only the tools that improve employee performance  and satisfaction.
It is also, and perhaps even more importantly, the correlation between  what these tools make it possible to do, the specific nature of generalists' work (compared  with that of more specialized freelancers), and the work culture of these employees, for  whom, it must be remembered, product quality constitutes a major professional concern.
It was further noted that the implementation of the new system and modes of  communication had a significant impact on INC's relations with its freelancers.
The  improved access that freelancers gained to information and more efficient channels for  reacting promptly to this information gave them a greater feeling of involvement in the  decision-making processes surrounding product design.
It was quickly observed that the  implementation of communication tools had benefits that far surpassed initial expectations  of a merely improvement in coordination.
Accompanying the technological and logistical  changes was a change within the organization's social structure, such that there was a shift  in the role of freelancers from suppliers to collaborators, ultimately enriching INC's  creative potential.
This subsequently led to the more effective integration of INC  freelancers into the firm's activities and structure as a whole, and into the logistics of   participatory management at INC.
3.
The Issues Involved in Technological Change in Organizations: Some     Theoretical Signposts
An organization is both shaped by action and shapes, which manifests itself differently  depending on the specific context in which it occurs (Suchman 1987).
Using the example of  INC, it can be stated that the particular context itself constitutes a social milieu, the  outcome of a historical progression, of the work cultures of the players involved and of the  social and economic environment.
It is partly in relation to such a context that expectations,  strategies (explicit or otherwise) and stances regarding phenomena such as technological  change are formulated.
The implementation of changes is often guided either by the will to  preserve this context by adapting it to an environment in flux, or to break with it to ensure  organizational renewal (Bergquist 1993).
If organizations are constrained by the weight of their past, and their social, economic and  cultural environment, the same holds true for technologies.
It is important to recognize that  technologies too are designed and applied according to work and social cultures in other  words, according to the demands imposed by particular sectors of activity.
This issue  warrants a closer look.
First, the design of a given technology is often guided by a particular view of the work that  it is used to accomplish.
Such a view has intrinsic constraints and potential that limit the  scope of what can be accomplished.
The manner in which a technology is applied in a  particular work context in turn shapes the characteristics of what could be called its  inherent "logic" (Alsène 1990).
Consider the example of an information management  system that incorporates a highly rigid command structure such that users can only carry  out their work by following the steps and procedures defined at the time of the system's  design.
This type of system in fact limits the users' possibilities of archiving their data in  any other way or of using the system in ways other those originally defined.
By the same  token, the type of control and supervision that predominates in an organization can place  restrictions on certain uses of a technology that require extensive circulation of  information.
Moreover, technology is not a neutral force in and of itself, and, as a number of authors  (notably Alsène 1990; Orlikowski 1992; Davies and Mitchell 1994) have demonstrated,  technology does not necessarily provide the most logical solution to a given problem.
Since  technology is never designed in a vacuum, it does not merely reflect technical knowledge,  but also references (conscious or otherwise) to a context and to ways of perceiving the  activities that it is designed to make possible in short, references to a host of non-technical considerations.
Thus, the social philosophy embedded in the design and  application of a technology may constitute a central issue in defining the role and effects of  the technology in the workplace and on the workers.
However, it is also important to emphasize that the characteristics built into the design of a  technology do not necessarily set it in stone.
Once it has been applied in a particular  environment under a given set of conditions, a technology may continue evolving through  use.
Technology is therefore (1) physically and socially constructed in a particular social  and professional context; and (2) socially constructed by the players who use it to perform  certain functions in a given organizational context (Orlikowski 1992).
A technological change in the workplace therefore does not involve technology alone.
It is  associated with organizational dynamics and raises human and social questions.
For  example, the generation of information and communications technologies that is currently  emerging favours a certain decentralization of operations within organizations, operations  that can be carried out through dialogue between individuals in different physical locations.
Faster than mail and free of the need for simultaneous user presence that governs telephone  communications, these new technologies also result in time savings through dialogue and  collaboration.
The potential offered by these technologies depends largely on the context in which they  are applied.
Changes in organizational structures and processes affect the way players deal  with the technologies.
At the same time, however, because of the potential it has to offer  and the very fact that it invites implementation, technology provides an essential  springboard for the emergence of new forms of work and organization for work.
It is  through a technology's design that its constraints and potential the "options" that it offers  organizations are pre-determined (Bj¢rn-Andersen and Turner 1994).
Information and  communications technologies thus open the door to new opportunities, just as they result in  part from this same evolutionary process that generates new needs that must be met, which  in turn generate yet other needs.
Returning to the example of INC, we saw that the  implementation of communications technologies and of the related methods of organization  brought about changes in the firm's relationship with its freelancers, who shifted from a  supplier to a collaborator role.
This shift, initially sparked by the opportunities offered by  new means of communication, thus had major impact on INC's organizational processes,  on its operations and on the components (e.g., human resources and activities) that shape  the company's evolution.
To a very large extent, the effectiveness or usefulness of a technological change will  depend on an organization's predisposition to identify and introduce, at the appropriate  times, the adjustments required to ensure the optimal integration of technologies and work  processes (Tyre and Orlikowski 1993).
In this context, a technological change in the  workplace must be seen as a global process, one that can both be impacted by and have an  impact on work and the organization as a whole (Figure 1).
It comprises
· tensions and correlations between the logic underlying the technology and the         characteristics of the organization
· negotiations and compromises concerning what is or is not desirable in terms of         the impact of the change
· areas of acceptance of and resistance to the change.
4.
A Contextualistic Approach to Assessment
4.1
General Description
It is important to recall that technological change is a global process that has potential  impact on all aspects of an organization and the work environment.
To exercise a certain  measure of control over this impact and optimize the anticipated outcomes of the change,  an overall picture must first be formed so that appropriate courses of action can be  identified.
This must be done taking into account the fact that the technologies are going to  be used in a given context and that they involve a process that will evolve over time.
Again  returning to the example of INC, the work corresponded to the consultations and analyses  carried out during the initial phase of the change process.
In keeping with this logic, the  methodology that we are proposing here may be described as a global approach.
This  global approach is designed to allow for a contextualistic, ongoing and adaptive  assessment of the change.
We propose a contextualistic type of assessment because the interface between the  technology and the organization is defined locally.
From this perspective, it is not a  question of delineating ONE ideal methodology of "turnkey" analysis that is applicable as  is, without any adjustments, to all phases of change.
On the contrary, it must be an  approach that can be adapted to a variety of organizational contexts.
This adaptable  approach calls into play a wide gamut of methodological tools that are interchangeable  according to the organizational context, user profile, type of technology and field of  application in question.
In order to ensure coherence, this methodological toolkit must be  grounded in the real practices of the technology users and in a specific organizational  context.
This implies that only with great difficulty could the senior executives in the  hierarchy plan the change without being immersed in actual practices (including informal  practices) and the social interactions surrounding the work process.
We therefore propose  an approach to managing technological change that promotes consultation and the  involvement of all players concerned.
We also submit that the assessment must be continuous because the technological-organizational interface is continually evolving.
The effects of a technology and the ways of  perceiving it evolve concurrently with its users (with their skills, knowledge and practices),  and with the work processes and the context in which they occur (Suchman 1987).
This  evolution can be aided or hindered by the predisposition of the users and the organization,  depending, for example, on the motivation of the players, their technical and professional  knowledge, their view of the challenges involved in the change, the pressures exerted by  the economic environment, and so on.
Thus, it is important to undertake ongoing follow-up  of the progress of the change and the impact it has on work processes and the organization.
This follow-up process aims to provide an opportunity for making any necessary  adjustments or improvements to meet needs that evolve en route, and to prevent  problems both organizational and technical rather than having to resolve them after the  fact.
However, it is important to ensure that the assessment does not become a hindrance to  operations or an irritant to the individuals consulted during the process.
Moreover, mutual  adaptations of the technologies and work processes presuppose that the users have at least  a minimal mastery of the technological change.
This is why, although it is necessary to  ensure ongoing follow-up of how the change is progressing, it is preferable to do so on an  episodic basis, after ensuring that a certain routine use of the technology has been  established (Tyre and Orlikowski 1993).
We therefore recommend adopting what could be  called an adaptive assessment approach.
This approach consists of a continuous follow-up of the change (analogous to INC's monitoring of the use of the new technology), but in  a way that gives rise to sporadic interventions (adaptations or modifications at each  phase) as needs become evident.
Ongoing follow-up involves information gathering  activities that require only a small time commitment on the part of the individuals  consulted.
This follow-up process is periodically interrupted by brief, yet intensive  consultation periods when specific problems arise or when there is a need to proceed with  formal adaptations of the technology or of the way in which work is organized (Figure 2).
The main advantages of using a contextualistic approach are as follows:
· its flexibility and adaptability to different contexts
· the detail and scope of information that can be obtained as a result
· the economies of scale that this information makes possible by helping the         organization remain at the forefront of technological developments and by         minimizing the drops in productivity that are generally associated with         implementing major changes into production methods on a sporadic basis.
Its main limitations or disadvantages are the following:
· its "homespun" aspect, in the sense that the assessment process must be         developed according to a particular context with the participation of those         involved, meaning that it makes high demands on the analyst's knowledge and         skills;
· even if adaptive assessment is undertaken, of an ongoing process implies a         minimum of continual work on the part of all those involved, and the impacts         often become evident only in the medium or long term;
· the participatory nature of the process necessitates organizational conditions that         enable all members of the organization to express their opinions openly;
furthermore, management must be able to show its willingness to take into         account the opinions of the employees consulted.
4.2
Strategy for Applying This Approach
The extent of the data collection and analysis that such an approach entails may vary from  one situation to another.
Whether part of an assessment or follow-up phase, the  requirements depend largely on the following:
· the nature and scope of the change to be brought about
· the context and organizational climate
· the degree of preparedness of the organization and its members.
The people who carry out the assessment themselves have an active role to play in  orienting the study and compiling the results.
Like others involved in the process, the  evaluators will have their own points of view regarding their role, the organization itself,  the work, and technological change in general (Lincoln and Guba 1985).
Through the way  they formulate their questions and interpret the information that they elicit, they are called  upon to contribute to the process, whether consciously or not.
They must be aware of their  own subjectivity, first, in order to give their analyses a breadth that goes beyond any  individual biases, and second, to be able to establish a clear point of reference for  "arbitrating" any potential points of conflict among the different groups of players  consulted.
It would therefore seem that such an approach should ideally be carried out by evaluators  who are generalists. Therein lies its primary constraint.
Because of its global scope, an  assessment of technological change can have an impact on all facets of the organization.
Various factors must be taken into consideration in decisions pertaining to the management  of technological change.
Such decisions may involve the following:
· work organization
· the development of work content (i.e., the nature and content of each task)
· labour relations
· the development of human resources (training, etc.)
· the development of technical resources (work tools, equipment, etc.).
The person in charge of the assessment or follow-up must not only have a mastery of  various assessment methods, but must also be able to analyze and suggest methods of  dealing with a range of scenarios involving technical, organizational, human and  administrative problems, among others.
One way of overcoming this problem is to proceed along the same lines as INC, by  distributing the follow-up and assessment tasks among various specialists or departments  within the organization (technical support, human resources, production, management,  union representatives, etc.).
These various representatives would form an ad hoc group  that would be responsible for following up the organizational change and the work  processes that accompany them.
The group could take the form of a continuous  improvement committee or a working group assigned to carry out the assessment and  analyze the results.
Ideally, the group should be able to count on the official support of  upper management in order to reinforce its credibility within the organization.
This way of  proceeding allows for a multidisciplinary approach and a global view of the change, such  that a diversity of viewpoints and interests can be represented.
This sort of global vision  should make it possible to implement a global strategy for managing technological change  (Figure  3).
An ongoing, adaptive assessment of the change of course requires a certain investment of  time and qualified personnel.
It can nevertheless result in significant economies of scale.
Such an endeavour in fact generates information that can help the organization remain at  the forefront of technological developments while minimizing the drops in productivity that  are generally associated with the implementation of major isolated changes in production  methods.
The following section provides an overview of the available methods for  applying this type of assessment approach.
4.3
Assessment Methods
Since technological change has many facets, which can have varying impacts that may be  perceived and expressed in different ways by various players, it is important to be able to  use methods that enable us to gather a broad range of information and points of view.
Moreover, as in all information-gathering endeavours, the data used must be validated.
One  way to meet these two objectives is through the triangulation of the various methods.
This means that the same problem can be approached in different ways for example, the  evaluators may administer a questionnaire and then go back over certain questions and  gather more detailed information by means of individual interviews; the results are then  viewed in light of systematic observations on site.
In general, triangulation can be carried out on two levels: data collection and validation.
On  the level of data collection, results are obtained by various data-collection methods, which  provide different portrayals of the realities observed.
On the level of validation, the results  from different sources are examined and compared in an attempt to take into account the  different points of view, opinions and interests expressed by the various individuals  involved.
In order to verify to what extent the results of the assessment and their interpretation  correspond to the points of view of the individuals involved, information-control measures  are applied.
The persons consulted are presented with summaries of the observations and  recommendations made by the evaluators and are asked to react to them.
This procedure  must be applied periodically throughout the assessment process each time a coherent set  of findings begins to emerge.
This is a means of ensuring the relevance of the results and of  the orientations of the evaluation and allows for adjustments to be made if necessary.
When  a report is finally prepared for submission, comments, suggestions and objections are  incorporated into the conclusions and recommendations.
The approach put forth here is therefore based on combining various methods of data  collection.
Certain methods, which are used predominantly on the level of contextualistic  design and especially during periods of intensive assessment, allow for a large range of data  to be collected.
These methods are as follows:
· semi-structured interviews (with individuals and/or groups)
· questionnaires
· various observation techniques.
For purposes of following up the change, a relatively informal consultation method can be  used. Alternatively, a daily record can be kept of the problems encountered, whether they  pertain to technical matters, training, labour relations in connection with operations, or  other considerations.
The following means can be used:
· logs
· informal consultations
· short questionnaires.
Each data-collection method is outlined below.
Interviews
Semi-structured interviews are intended as an in-depth exploration of how individuals react  to change.
The method has the primary advantage of giving the respondents a great deal of  latitude, thus making it easier for them to express their points of view and formulate new  ideas.
It is a key means of determining the factors that underlie the situations  observed finding out the "whys."
This method nevertheless has the drawback of requiring  relatively onerous analysis of the information gathered.
Questionnaires
Questionnaires allow for the collection of target information on specific points in order to  determine topics for further investigation, identify specific problems, validate certain  analysis results, etc.
Questionnaires can be processed more quickly than interview results or  data gleaned from observation. Their primary limitation, however, is that they cannot easily  elicit subtleties that point to underlying factors (the "whys" of the situation).
Observation
Observation techniques are primarily intended to analyze the user/machine interface and  ways of working.
They can consist of either direct observation or observation via  videotape; participatory observation, which entails some dialogue between the evaluator  and the users; or assisted observation for instance, by means of computer programs that  allow for linking operations that involve a particular technology in order to assess its  usability.
Widely used in ergonomics, this approach is particularly well suited to assessing  operations performed in order to accomplish specific tasks.
However, it requires a certain  level of skill and technical knowledge on the part of the evaluator.
Logs
Gathering information by means of logs entails asking the individuals involved to keep a  daily record of their problems in using the technology or integrating it into their work and  to note any suggestions that they might have for improving system use.
This information is  compiled with a view to orienting future improvements in or adaptations of the technology,  as well as work and/or organizational processes.
Though this approach generally does not  yield complex data, it requires little time and allows for change to be observed in a linear  manner.
Informal Consultations
Informal consultations, which are interviews consisting of informal dialogue, are primarily  intended to prevent serious problems and identify avenues for systematically exploring  ways of enhancing the technology and the conditions under which it is used.
The  effectiveness of this approach depends largely on the degree of confidence that exists  between the individuals involved and the evaluator.
The information gathered via these different methods is compiled and analyzed by the  people responsible for assessment or follow-up.
Analysis essentially consists in identifying  the strengths and weaknesses of the changes implemented, as well as the adaptations or  improvements that could be made from the user point of view.
Nevertheless, it is important  that the validation process not become a hindrance to innovation, imagination or devising  of new ways of proceeding.
Feedback gathered by such means must not be viewed as  constituting the sole possibilities for action, but rather as indicators of what it is necessary,  desirable or foreseeable to do or not do.
It must be borne in mind that applying the  methods suggested here is not an end in itself, but a means of facilitating change and  making the process more congruent with the needs of the organization and its personnel.
5.
Levels of Intervention
The global approach put forth here is not intended to generate solely technological  solutions to specific problems.
It allows for devising and applying other types of changes  that could prove more appropriate in certain situations.
It is thus intended to identify  various types of solutions in order to respond to needs for improvement or problem solving  in the work process in as satisfactory a manner as possible.
This paper, however, will focus  on the application of the global approach to technological change as such.
Figure 4 summarizes the primary steps involved in identifying elements that require change  (e.g., problems to be solved and improvements to be made to work processes or tools), as  well as the most appropriate means of bringing about such change (at the organizational  level, and with respect to work content, professional development, and technology).
This  diagnostic work and the planning that it entails correspond to the initial consultation phase  (laying the groundwork for change) in the example of the INC Inc. working group.
The above process lays the foundation for three possible levels of intervention:  contextualistic design, assessment of implementation, and assessment of user/machine  interface (or assessment of use).
These three components can be closely linked and have  often been approached as part of a single study.
Different combinations of these  components have in fact laid the foundation for the global approach to managing  technological change presented in this paper.
We shall now examine each of these  components.
5.1
Contextualistic Design
As seen previously, the design of a technology can impose constraints, yet it can also create  opportunities with respect to its use and its integration in a given work process.
The design  and development of technological tools do not therefore consist solely in the creation and  juxtaposition of a set of tools and capabilities.
Also required is the formation of a social and  organizational philosophy that calls for, or at least fosters, certain practices and ways of  carrying out specific work.
Of course, through usage strategies, it is possible to transform, adapt or sidestep such a  philosophy, which is implicit.
However, such strategies, especially if they are developed in a  hit-and-miss fashion through trial and error, can require a significant amount of effort on  the part of users.
Conversely, it is possible to orient the design of a technology so that is it  is necessarily grounded in actual work practices and philosophy, and in the aspirations of  the people for whom the technology is intended.
From this perspective, there is a focus on  the development of tools that are better suited to the various work situations that may  exist, thus favouring a better, faster and less costly integration of change into the work  process.
Yet how should this sort of development which focuses as much on the use of  the technologies as on their function be implemented?
There are many approaches to technology design (De Serres 1995).
The approach to  technological change favoured here presupposes two essential conditions that will orient  the choice of a design approach.
The first requires that the change be geared to the  perspectives of the people involved with respect to their work, the organization in which  they work, and life in the workplace.
The second concerns the importance of taking into  consideration the context and conditions that are particular to a given organization or  sector of activity in order to develop means that enable them to function, including, of  course, technologies and their applications.
In order to meet these two conditions, we  suggest a contextualistic type of development.
A contextualistic design approach (also referred to as a contextual design approach, De  Serres 1995) is intended to adapt ethnographic research methods to the constraints  involved in systems design.
It essentially consists in orienting systems design according to  information gleaned from observing and consulting with users at work.
The information  and ideas noted are then compiled and integrated into the specifications for the tool to be  developed, in the preliminary stages of the design process.
It is important that the  considerations that emerge from observing and interacting with the users not simply be  grafted onto a structure that has already been planned, but that they truly be incorporated  at the most basic level.
For various reasons (delays, budgets, unforeseen problems, etc.), elements that were slated  for inclusion from the outset are often sacrificed during the design process.
If certain  specifications are added to an already-existing theoretical structure, it is likely that they will  never become a coherent part of the development plan.
Furthermore, such additions  become the elements that are the easiest to dispense with and that stand up the least well  when compromises are being negotiated within the development team.
The contextualistic aspects of change may often seem nebulous at the start because they are  based not only on measurable information, but also on subjective values.
Nevertheless, the  example of the importance of quality for the writers and translators who work for INC  shows that it is precisely because they are able to raise subjective considerations that such  factors are very important for obtaining satisfactory results with respect to the  technological and organizational choices connected with change.
Ideally, contextualistic design interventions are iterative (see Figure 5).
In this perspective,  contextualistic design is seen as a succession of feedback loops, or feedback phases, each  of which consists of three stages:
· gathering information on site
· analyzing information provided by the individuals involved, possible         improvements to be made to the work process, and organizational-development         objectives
· validation of recommendations by the individuals involved.
The concept of feedback loops stems from an iterative approach, which is based on a way  of proceeding that is designed to be as flexible as possible so that its orientation can be  adjusted at any time according to the information gathered in a real context, the  development of users' characteristics (skills, etc.) and tasks, and the needs of the  organization(s) involved.
The application of this iterative approach to contextualistic design  requires a series of consultation, validation and prototype-development stages (see Figure  6).
5.2
Assessment of Implementation
Several years of applied research on the introduction of information and communications  technologies in various work environments have demonstrated that technological change  generally requires interventions that are much more far reaching than merely the technology  itself.
It involves the implementation of measures on the management level that are  intended to integrate the technology with the way the organization functions and with the  work content, practices, knowledge, and users' work culture.
The management of  technological change therefore requires a thorough grasp of the current situation and the  effects of the implementation as they become evident.
An assessment of change must not be limited to simply compiling a list of the effects of a  technology after its implementation.
The true merit of an assessment lies in its ability to  identify the strengths and weaknesses of the change in a specific context, point to  adjustments and adaptations as the technology is being implemented, and resolve problems  as they arise.
An understanding of all the implications of the change (whether they be  technical or organizational, related to training or labour relations, etc.) is essential in order  to suggest ways of meeting the expectations and needs of an organization and its members.
In order to do so, it would seem essential to have analyzed not only the technology but also  the context in which it is implemented and the actual implementation process.
As seen previously, technology in and of itself does not produce specific results at least  not a priori even though it may have inherent potential and constraints.
Each  organization constitutes a specific context, with a unique logic underlying its operations.
That is why the way a technology is implemented would seem to be result of how the  various players see the stakes involved and the resulting benefits and disadvantages.
The  example given at the start of this paper illustrates such differences in perception by  describing the divergent points of view of the employees at INC and the company's  freelancers with respect to the usefulness of the terminology research support applications.
In the case of INC, the factors involved in the change concerned the type of work to be  carried out, the specific skills required, and each group's role within the organization.
The implementation of a technological change within an organization can thus spark action,  adaptation and transformation that is other than technological, with respect to the spectrum  of work carried out and the organization itself.
That is why the effects of a given  technology within an organization are contingent upon the way it is integrated into what  might be termed the logic or philosophy of technological implementation.
The ability to  comprehend the technology/organization interface is an important factor in the success of  technological implementation.
This means that implementation must be accompanied by  means of identifying its repercussions on the work carried out, the organization itself, and  its members.
From this perspective, an assessment of a technological implementation  consists, first and foremost, in contextualizing the change by identifying its implications on  the way the organization functions, its work practices, and the work-related values of its  users.
The primary assessment stages presented here (Figure 7) mostly entail verifying how the  implementation is carried out and its effects in order to prevent subsequent problems and, if  necessary, to identify what adjustments should be made to the change (e.g., training,  technical support and ways of organizing and distributing the work).
This ensures the  follow-up of the entire implementation process, each step of which relies on consultation  with all the individuals involved.
5.3
Follow-up (Assessment of System Use)
In any discussion of technology design and implementation, one issue prevails: that of  user/machine interface or, to be more precise, the way in which the use of the technology is  integrated with the work and the organization itself.
The different implications of this  should thus be considered, as should other areas of intervention in which the efficiency of  the work process and quality of life at work can be improved.
The use of technologies raises issues such as the quality (i.e., user-friendliness) of the  user/machine interface and the "usability" of the technologies for carrying out specific  operations.
However, just as a technology cannot be initially implemented in a vacuum,  neither can it be used in one.
In certain contexts, a given technology can be easier to use  than in others, with varying impact on the work and on life in the workplace.
Other factors  that can play an essential role in the user/machine interface are the characteristics of both  the users and the work to be carried out, as well as conditions surrounding use, such as  training, technical support, the work environment, and user motivation.
Thus, the use of a  technology is a process that evolves over time.
The user/machine interface is generally thought to depend on taking into consideration the  users' characteristics at the design stage, as well as how their needs develop as they gain  experience (Goodwin 1987).
Ultimately, however, the primary criterion for the usability of  a technology is the users' perspective: their perception of its limitations and its potential for  accomplishing a job or activity.
Once again, we should recall the divergence between INC  employees and freelancers, who were not willing to expend the same effort to learn how to  use the writing software.
In a work situation, the way a technology is used is closely linked with the practices and all  other factors that accompany the activities which the technology helps to perform.
Work  itself is thus both a contextual ("situated") and a social activity (Suchman and Trigg 1993).
It is carried out within a specific time frame and in a particular location, under specific  conditions, and involves a certain amount of interaction with colleagues, clients, the  employer, and others.
Therefore, there is clearly a need to approach problems linked to the  use of technology by forming an overall awareness of the problems involved in the  user/machine interface (Noro and Brown 1990; Noulin 1990; Eason 1991; Hendrick 1991;  Reiterer and Oppermann 1993).
We must endeavour to fully grasp the dynamics between  the user, the task, the system and the organization.
From this perspective, the way of using a given technology are defined and evolve  differently in each work environment according to the following:
· the workers (who will differ according to their work culture, their technical skills         and knowledge, etc.)
· their work (which will vary according to the social interaction that takes place,         the nature and degree of complexity of the tasks, the role of technology in the         work process, etc.)
· the social and organizational dynamics that ensure the cohesion of the individuals         involved and the work process (according to the limitations and possibilities that         come to light with respect to how the work process is organized, how adaptable         it is, etc.).
Within this framework, follow-up of system use must begin with an exploration of the way  in which the users regard their work context, their particular roles, the role of their work,  and what gives their work value.
Furthermore, the diversity of potential users, the tasks  they have to carry out and the specificity of the way their work is organized create diverse  needs and expectations with respect to the user/machine interface factors that are difficult  to foresee.
The criteria that should be used in assessing the use of a given technology must  also be defined in light of the specific nature of their context.
The role of follow-up of  usage processes is therefore to identify needs on site so that the technology can meet user  expectations.
It should be borne in mind that the follow-up involved at this stage is distinct from an  intensive assessment stage.
The purpose of follow-up is to raise questions that are essential  to the prevention of problems and to the possible enhancement of the technology and the  organizational methods in use. It must, however, be on the basis of periodic and largely  informal consultations that require little time on the part of the evaluators and the  individuals concerned.
Follow-up (Figure 8) is intended first and foremost to document the  evolution of the usage process, and is conducted within the context of a participatory  approach to management.
6.
Conclusion
The proliferation of information and communications technologies in various sectors has in  many cases significantly changed work, organizations and life in the workplace.
Moreover,  the acceleration of the development cycles of new technologies and the pressures exerted  by a highly competitive economic context have subjected workers and organizations to the  pace and requirements of virtually uninterrupted changes and adaptations.
Major efforts  still have to be made to fully adapt organizations' ways of operating to this dynamic of  change.
It is hoped that this paper will contribute to such efforts.
Whether we speak of development or implementation, technological change does not  depend solely on technical considerations.
It entails a process that has much more far-reaching implications, which are not always objectively measurable or quantifiable.
Assessing technological change therefore partly requires tools that can register the social,  human and organizational stakes involved in technological change in the workplace.
As we endeavoured to point out in the example at the beginning of this paper, an  intervention that, for one reason or another, has an objective of far-reaching technological  and organizational change must be part of a global approach based on the involvement of  all individuals concerned.
This sort of global, contextualistic approach must begin with the  building of a social philosophy of the organization in the design of tools (technologies) and  work processes.
The next step is the application of the philosophy in the management of  technology implementation and in the organization's daily operations.
The idea of an  adaptive approach is intended to steer change through the full life cycle of the technology,  from the design stage to its retirement, including its implementation and the various  adjustments that may have to be made as it is being used.
Such an approach of course entails certain costs and a time investment, and the methods  connected with it require the development of certain expertise.
Moreover, focusing on a  contextualistic approach requires the development of tailor-made measures that are adapted  to the particular organization's context and needs.
However, a technological change is first  and foremost the product of actions and factors that are at least partly subjective and  context-dependent, such as human relations, values, and knowledge that is in a state of  flux.
It is unlikely therefore that we will master this sort of change if we do not first manage  to understand and interact with these subjective and context-dependent elements.
It is  hoped that this paper has enhanced the reader's understanding of technological change and  of the means available for acting in a manner that, as much as possible, respects the  expectations and needs of the individuals involved, which must evolve as technological   change takes hold.
Bibliography
Alsène, é. (1990) "Les impacts de la technologie sur l'organisation." Sociologie du travail,       no. 3/90: 321 336.
Alsène. E., Légaré, J., Vendittoli, M.  (1991) ébauche de reconceptualisation de       l'organisation à partir de la théorie de l'auto-organisation, Montreal : école       Polytechnique and CWARC.
Anderson, R. J. (1994) "Representations and Requirements: The Value of Ethnography in       System Design." Human-Computer Interaction, vol. 9: 151 182.
Bergquist, W. (1993) The Postmodern Organization: Mastering the Art of Irreversible       Change. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Bj¢rn-Andersen, N., and J. A. Turner (1994) "Creating the Twenty-First Century       Organization: The Metamorphosis of Opticon." In Transforming Organizations with       Information Technology, edited by R. Baskerville, S. Smithson, O. Ngwenyama, and       J. I. DeGross. North-Holland: Elsevier Science B. V.
Clement, A., M. Griffiths, and P. Van den Besselaar (1992) "Participatory Design Projects:       A Retrospective Look." In Proceedings of the Participatory Design Conference. Cambridge, 6 7 November 1992.
Davies, L., and G. Mitchell (1994) "The Dual Nature of the Impact of IT on Organizational       Transformations." In Transforming Organizations with Information Technology,       edited by R. Baskerville, S. Smithson, O. Ngwenyama, and J. I. DeGross. North-Holland: Elsevier Science B. V.
De Serres, M. (1995) Approaches to Information-Systems Design. Laval, Quebec: Centre for       Information Technology Innovation (CITI).

Douzou, S. (1992) "Methodologies for Evaluating Network-based Communication       Technologies in Organizations: A Critical Assessment." In Electronic Networks in       Organizations: Perspectives and Issues for Research, edited by Duncan Sanderson. Laval, Quebec: Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI).
__________ (1991) Analyse des études, approches et méthodologies d'évaluation sociale des       réseaux informatisés de communication en contexte organisationnel. Proposition pour       le développement d'une approche méthodologique adaptée. Working document. Laval, Quebec: Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI).
Douzou, S., and J. Légaré (1994) "Network-Based Information Systems, Professional       Cultures and Organizational Dynamics: A Multiple Case Study in the Health Care       Sector." In Transforming Organizations with Information Technology, edited by R.       Baskerville, S. Smithson, O. Ngwenyama, and J. I. DeGross. North-Holland: Elsevier       Science B. V., 263 276.
Eason, K. D. (1991) "Ergonomic Perspectives on Advances in Human-Computer Interaction." Ergonomics, vol. 34, no. 6: 721 741.
Gillis, S., C. Desautels, M. De Serres, and F. Lapointe (1991) The IMOSA Project:       Information Management and Office System Advancement. Phase I Report. Canadian       Workplace Automation Research Centre (CWARC) and National Archives of Canada       (GRB).
Goodwin, N. C. (1987) "Functionality and Usability." Communications of the ACM, March       1987, vol. 30, no. 3: 229 233.
Hendrick, H. W. (1991) "Ergonomics in Organizational Design and Management." Ergonomics, vol. 34, no. 6: 743 756.
Klein, H. K., and P. Kraft (1994) "Social Control and Social Contract in NetWORKing. Total       Quality Management and the Control of Work in the United States." Computer       Supported Cooperative Work, no. 2: 89 108.
Klenke, K. (1994) "Information Technologies as Drivers of Emergent Organizational Forms:       A Leadership Perspective." In R. Baskerville, S. Smithson, O. Ngwenyama, J. I.       DeGross (Ed.) , Transforming Organizations with Information Technology. North-Holland: Elsevier Science B. V.
Kraft, P., and D. Truex (1994) "Postmodern Management and Information Technology in the       Modern Industrial Corporation." In R. Baskerville, S. Smithson, O. Ngwenyama, J. I.       DeGross (Ed.) , Transforming Organizations with Information Technology. North-Holland: Elsevier Science B. V.

Lapointe, F. (1990) User-friendliness of Interfaces : Proposal for an Evaluation       Methodology. Laval, Quebec: Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI).
__________ (1992) "Contexte organisationnel et convivialité des interfaces utilisateur-machine. L'exemple du poste de travail pour la traduction." Technologies de l'information et       société, vol. 4, no. 2: 253 275.
__________ (1993) Organizational Appropriation of Technological Change. Conceptual Basis       Analatical Tools. Laval, Quebec: Centre for Information Technology Innovation       (CITI).

__________ (1996) "Vers un modèle d'évaluation du changement technologique dans les       organisations". The Canadian Journal of Program Evaluation/La Revue canadienne       d'évaluation de programme (forthcoming).
Lavoie, R., D. Tippin, J. Légaré, F. Lapointe, and A.-M. Tessier (1994) "Ce que travailler       veut dire. Regards ethnographiques sur une certaine société de l'information." In The       New Frontier. IDATE's 16th International Conference Proceedings, edited by Dassot. Montpellier: IDATE, 185 209.
Légaré, J. (1991) "L'évaluation d'implantations technologiques : une approche naturaliste       centrée sur l'utilisateur." Paper presented at conference entitled "L'Homme et       l'ordinateur II," Nivelles, Belgium, May 1990. Laval, Quebec: Centre for Information       Technology Innovation (CITI).
Lincoln, Y.S. et Guba, E.G. (1985), Naturalistic Inquiry. Londres : Sage.
Minc, A. (1993) Le nouveau Moyen-Age. Paris : Gallimard.
Noro, K., and O. Brown Jr. (eds.) (1990) Human Factors in Organisational Design and       Management III. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Noulin, M. (1990) "Ergonomie : ne pas oublier l'utilisateur." Terminal, no. 48, Jan. Feb.       1990: 20 23.
Orlikowski, W. J. (1992) "The Duality of Technology: Rethinking the Concept of Technology       in Organizations." Organization Science, vol. 3, no. 3: 398 427.
Reiterer, H., and R. Oppermann (1993) "Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II   A       Comprehensive Approach." Behaviour & Information Technology, vol. 12, no. 3:       137 148.
Sanderson, D. (1992) "The CSCW Implementation Process: An Interpretative Model and       Case Study of the Implementation of a Videoconference System." Preoceedings of       CSCW '92: 370 377.
__________ (1994) "Mediated Collaborative Research? Claims, Evidence, and a Case Study of       a Distributed Science Group." CSCW, 2: 41 65.
Suchman, L. (1987) Plans and Situated Actions. The Problem of Human-Machine       Communication. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Suchman, L. A., and R. H. Trigg (1993) "Understanding Practice: Video as a Medium for       Reflection and Design." In Readings in Groupware and Computer-Supported       Cooperative Work. Assisting Human Computer Collaboration, edited by R. M.       Baecker. San Mateo: Morgan Kaufman Publishers.
Tessier, A.-M., and F. Lapointe (1994) Telework at Home : Evaluation of a Pilot Project at       Employment and Immigration Canada. Laval, Quebec: Centre for Information       Technology Innovation (CITI).
Tippin, D. (1994) "Control Processes in Distance Work Situations: The Case of Satellite       Offices." Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Canadian Sociology and       Anthropology Association, June 1 4 , 1994, Calgary, Alberta.
Tyre, M. J., and W. J. Orlikowski (1993) "Exploiting Opportunities for Technological       Improvement in Organizations." Sloan Management Review, vol. 35, no. 1: 13 36.
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION                   TECHNOLOGIES AND OLDER ADULTS
by
Catherine Geoffroy                        Visiting researcher
for
Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI)              One Voice, The Canadian Seniors Network
A view of the Canadian and international situation relating to:
1)
the behaviour and attitudes of older adults toward technology;
2)
research and development programs concerning communication            and information technologies for older adults;
3)
the possible contribution of communication and              information technologies in meeting the                needs and interests of older adults.
Laval                           September 1994
An english version of this document is also available          to the same editor entitled:
Les technologies de communication                  de l'information et les aîné(e)s
In this report, the systematic use of masculine forms is intended only to facilitate reading.
This report was prepared in connection with work carried out by the Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI) of Industry Canada.
© Minister of Supply and Services Canada 1994 N  de catalogue Co28-1/116-1994E ISBN 0-662-22769-7
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
One Voice and the CITI wish to thank all the different people who contributed to this research.
We also thank the following persons for their special contribution to this research:
Madeleine, Michel, Simone and Marcel who agreed to have their     pictures taken;
Pierre Billon and Robert Dupuy who were the instigators of CITI's     "Technology and Society" aspect under which was undertaken the     present research;
Hélène Deslauriers, Heritage Canada who helped organize the     different consultation sessions in three different cities;
David Scott, English translation;
Richard Lavoie, CITI, Picture taking;
Geneviève Leclerc, One Voice, Research Assistant;
Danielle Massé, for indexing, French text revision and editing.
Litho et Ass. , Ville St-Laurent (Quebec), Cover Page design
Copyright For more information:
CITI                                   One Voice 1575, boul. Chomedey                   350 Sparks Street, Suite 1005 Laval (Québec)                         Ottawa (Ontario) H7V 2X2                           K1R 7S8 att. : Mrs Catherine Geoffroy           att. : Mrs Sylvie Deliencourt Tel. : 514-973-5779                     Tel. : 613-238-7624                                   Fax. : 514-973-5757                Fax. : 613-235-4497
PREFACE
The study Communications and Information Technologies and Older Adults was conducted in co-operation with One Voice - The Canadian Seniors Network and the Centre for Information Technologies Innovation (CITI) under its Research Initiatives Program.
The purpose of this report is to present data, analyses, recommendations and documents collected between January and June 1993.
This is a reference document intended for readers wishing further details on material contained in the research summary published in February 1994.
The Centre for Information Technologies Innovation (CITI) at Industry Canada
CITI's mission is to promote the development and dissemination of information technology applications that improve the performance of individuals and the competitiveness of organizations working together across time and distance, through the computerization of their collaborative processes.
CITI's Technology and Society team is concerned with the development and application of new information and communications technologies that improve access, for persons with disabilities and older adults, to the normal activities of daily life:  education, work and leisure.
Therefore, the program focusses primarily on individuals for whom communications services or technology-based tools and techniques represent the key to equality and independance.
The program is designed to take account of the interests, characteristics and needs of users and the professionals who care for them.
All projects conducted under this program are designed to foster partnership between the industry, research and development professionals, organizations representing target clienteles and the university community, and encourage co-operation between professionals concerned with improving the quality of life and social integration of older adults and the handicapped.
By working in partnership, CITI and One Voice - The Canadian Seniors Network were able to harmonize their common objectives and interests and combine the former's expertise in technological innovation and scientific research with the latter's in-depth understanding of older adults and their networks.
One Voice - The Canadian Seniors Network
One Voice - The Canadian Seniors Network promotes the enhancement of the status and independence of older Canadians.
The organization advocates policies and programs to improve the well-being of Canadian seniors and encourages and enables their full and active participation in decisions affecting their lives.
It is a non-partisan, voluntary, not-for-profit organization working in both of Canada's official languages, providing leadership and working in partnership and consultation with others.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
PREFACE
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v
TABLE OF CONTENTS
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vii
1.
INTRODUCTION
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2.
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
2.1.
Research design
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
3.
PORTRAIT OF SENIOR CITIZENS
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.1.
Who are these people?
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3.2.
What groupings are most appropriate?
. . . . . . . . . 8
3.3.
What are their socio-demographic characteristics in Canada?
8
3.3.1.
Breakdown by age group
. . . . . . . . . . . 8
3.3.2.
Breakdown by sex
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
3.3.3.
Breakdown by ethnic group
. . . . . . . . . 9
3.3.4.
Life expectancy
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
3.3.5.
Health status
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
3.3.6.
Consumption of health services
. . . . . . . 10
3.3.7.
Older adults and independence
. . . . . . . 10
3.3.8.
Satisfaction with life
. . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.3.9.
Marital status
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.3.10.
Living arrangements
. . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.3.11.
Educational level and school attendance of older                    adults
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
3.3.12.
Literacy among older adults
. . . . . . . . 12
3.3.13.
How do older adults spend their time?
. . . 13
3.3.14.
Retirement
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
3.3.15.
What about seniors' incomes?
. . . . . . . . 14
3.3.16.
Social action among people 55 years and older
17
3.3.17.
Predictions for the 21st century
. . . . . . 17
3.4.
Conclusion
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Page
4.
RESEARCH RESULTS
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
4.1.
Review of the Literature
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
4.1.1.
Goals and objectives
. . . . . . . . . . . . 21
4.1.2.
Methodology
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
4.1.3.
Compilation of results. . . . . . . . . . . 22     4.2.
Older adults' attitudes, needs, interests and behaviour
25
4.2.1.
Older adults and technology in general
. . . 26
4.2.2.
Principal conclusions related to particular                    technologies
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
5.
INDUSTRY SURVEY
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49     5.1.
Goals and objectives
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
5.2.
Methodology
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
5.2.1.
Banking industry
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
5.2.2.
Visual Communication Network
. . . . . . . . 51
5.2.3.
Cable television and interactive television
52
5.2.4.
Telephone
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
5.2.5.
Security systems manufacturers
. . . . . . . 54
5.2.6.
Home automation
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
5.2.7.
Computers
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
6.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
6.1.
Canadian projects
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
6.1.1.
Creative Retirement Manitoba/Canadian Healthcare                Telematics
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
6.1.2.
Applications of Building Automation for Elderly and                Disabled Persons (Hickling Report)
. . . . . . . 58
6.1.3.
Info-3e âge project (Quebec)
. . . . . . . . 58
6.1.4.
Silver & Gold (Ontario)
. . . . . . . . . . 59
6.1.5.
Seniors Resources and Research Society (Infonet)
60
6.1.6.
Project PAIR (Quebec)
. . . . . . . . . . . 61
6.2.
Project in the United States
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
6.2.1.
SeniorNet
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Page
6.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (continued)
6.3.
Projects in Europe
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
6.3.1.
RACE (Research and Advanced Development on                Communications Technology in Europe)
. . . . . . 63
6.3.2.
TIDE:  Technology Initiative for Disabled                and Elderly People
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
6.3.3.
Home Shopping Systems
. . . . . . . . . . . 64
6.3.4.
Elderly and Self-Service Technology
. . . . 65
6.4.
Reactions
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
7.
SURVEY OF ASSOCIATIONS AND GROUPS OF OLDER ADULTS
. . . . . 67
7.1.
Goals and objectives
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
7.2.
Methodology
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
7.3.
Results
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
8.
CONCLUSION
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
8.1.
Older adults and technology
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
8.1.1.
Things are certain to improve
. . . . . . . 76
8.2.
What are seniors' attitudes toward technology?
. . . . 77
8.3.
What can the CIT industry do for seniors?
. . . . . . 78
9.
RECOMMENDATIONS
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
BIBLIOGRAPHY
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
GLOSSARY
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
1.
INTRODUCTION
This study examines the interaction between communication and information technologies (CITs) and older adults. Its purpose is to describe the basic tenets of gerontechnology; assess the impact of technology on specific groups of older adults; and determine the requirements and interests of Canadians conducting research and development in this area. Canada, like other industrialized countries, cannot avoid the two phenomena that will mark the history of the 20th century and determine the profile of the 21st, namely, an aging population and technological development. All changes brought about by CITs will have an increasingly important impact on older Canadians.
The study has reviewed all relevant Canadian and international data, interviews, opinions and research dealing comprehensively with issues related to possible interactions between older adults and CITs.
It has also devoted particular attention to determining priorities for both research and development and technology marketing.
Problem
As the phenomenon of technology development continues to unfold, communications and information technologies have come to play a critical role in late 20th-century Canadian life.
These technologies are increasingly ubiquitous in the home, at work and in recreational activities.
They make the activities of daily life easier for some people but more difficult for others.
Commercially available technology-based tools are usually designed for broad segments of the productive population and are not necessarily appropriate for all groups.
Modern consumers of all ages realize, however, that technological developments are slowly transforming their lifestyle whether they like it or not.
At the same time, the population includes increasing numbers of individuals aged 55 years and over who, because they are getting older, experience changes involving functional, sensory and cognitive limitations.
Furthermore, the trend toward earlier retirement leads to major changes in social status.
The appearance of these generations of older adults calls for a re-appraisal of the role of senior citizens in society and the tools that they may require.
The convergence of these two phenomena raises several issues and suggests a number of questions. For example:  How do seniors react to technology?
Can technology make it easier to maintain or improve older Canadians' quality of life?
Is it true that older adults are afraid of technology?
Is the technology industry prepared to adapt to the needs and interests of this new clientele?
What, if anything, do seniors' associations and groups need with respect to technology?

Not surprisingly, the need for a study of this kind has been recognized for some years. Seniors themselves, through One Voice - The Canadian Seniors Network, have expressed a desire for accurate information on this topic.
Goals and objectives
To establish the need for a Canadian program of technological     development designed to encourage older adults to participate in     society in such a way that the value of their experience, knowledge and     skills is recognized.
To discover mechanisms for finding efficient means, using CITs, for     satisfying the health, economic and information needs of older adults.
Significance of the study
Even though CITs are present in all aspects of daily life, no study of this kind has ever been conducted in Canada or elsewhere.
This research is therefore quite pertinent, to present and future seniors as well as to industry and government.
Given that a growing part of the population is made up of older adults, that these people remain active longer and that more and more of them are likely to use various high-technology equipment, the time has come to separate myth from reality regarding seniors and technology.
Finally, this research may serve as a point of departure for discussions on gerontechnology among the various stakeholders (seniors themselves, the CIT industry and research and development centres).
Such co-operation will encourage associations, government and the private sector to share research and development responsibilities and costs.
Ultimately, by facilitating interactions between older adults and technological applications, society as a whole stands to benefit from the potential and energy of older Canadians who want to feel useful in their community.
Principal stakeholders
Consequently, this study holds potential interest for a variety of stakeholders and researchers:
older adults;
equipment designers;
service providers;
manufacturers;
researchers;
governments;
universities;
municipalities;
the building, electronics, computer and telecommunications     industries;
others.
2.
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
2.1.
Research design
The study was conducted between January and June, 1993.
It was designed to simultaneously explore five research avenues:
a portrait of the clientele (characteristics, statistics, etc.);
a review of the literature;
an inventory of existing or emerging technologies or services in the     industry;
a survey of experience in seniors' networks;
consultations with seniors.
Various methodological approaches were used, in keeping with the objective of each stage of the study:  a literature survey, identification of technologies, an inventory of research and development and consultations with older adults and industry.
3.
PORTRAIT OF SENIOR CITIZENS
3.1.
Who are these people?
At what age does one get old?
When does one become a senior citizen?
The answer to the first questions is very subjective;
more often than not, an individual's psychological age, not biological age, is the determining factor.
While some individuals under 45 display attitudes and behaviours generally thought of as typical of older people, others aged 75 years or older engage in activities similar to those of younger people and think largely as they do.
Since old-age pensions and most retirement plans take effect at 65 years, however, the answer to the second question depends on biological age.
On average, people retire after 62 years of age.
They are eligible for golden age clubs at age 55 (in some cases, at age 50).
Finally, older adults gain access to certain free or reduced-fee services based on their chronological age, not their needs.
Furthermore, to follow the aging profile of the baby-boomers, Statistics Canada has established the 45-65 year group; this makes it even more difficult to break out data on this group.

Nonetheless, most researchers seem to have adopted the following categories:
45 to 65 years:  older adults (which could include older workers,     pre-retirees or young retirees);
65 to 75 years:  young-old people;
80 years and older:  old-old people.
3.2.
What groupings are most appropriate?
In addition to age, there are other ways to group older adults:  by cohort, degree of autonomy, place of residence, occupation, social or political involvement, field of interest, recreational pursuits, etc.
Importantly, however, with the arrival of new generations of older adults at the beginning of the next millennium, it is becoming increasingly difficult to generalize and consider this entire population as a single group.
3.3.
What are their socio-demographic characteristics in Canada?
3.3.1.
Breakdown by age group
According to Statistics Canada, in 1993 there were 27,296,860 people living in Canada and one Canadian out of five (20.4%) was 55 years of age or older. This group of 5,569,600 individuals could be broken down as follows:
55 - 59 years       1,222,925
60 - 64 years       1,176,705
8.8%
65 - 74 years       1,895,070
75 years and over        1,274,900
11.6%
Interestingly, 94,000 Canadian seniors were 90 years of age or older in 1991.
3.3.2.
Breakdown by sex
According to Statistics Canada data, the female:male ratio tends to increase considerably with advancing age.
49.2% of people between 45 and 64 years of age are women;
57% of people between 65 and 69 years of age are women.
3.3.3.
Breakdown by ethnic group
According to 1981 data, about one senior Canadian in six was born outside of Canada. Britain and France were the countries of origin for 80% of these individuals; 17% belonged to the Jewish Community.
In 1987, 40% of all elderly immigrants came from Great Britain, the United States, India and the Philippines. More recent trends in immigration, however, are causing this proportion to change.
3.3.4.
Life expectancy
The average life expectancy for a Canadian male at birth is 73.1 years; for Canadian women, this figure is 79.7 years.
The life expectancy of a 65-year-old man is 14.9 years (for an expected life of almost 80 years); that of a 65-year-old woman is 19.1 years (for an expected life of 84.1 years).
3.3.5.
Health status
Most older adults claim to be in excellent or good health.
This favourable perception declines with age:
71 to 75% of individuals aged 55 to 64 years, 65% of those aged 65-69 years, 63% of those aged 70-74 years, 60% of those aged 75-79 years and only 57% of those aged 80 years claim to be in excellent or good health.
3.3.6.
Consumption of health services
In 1993, the National Advisory Council on Aging (NACA) reported that 22% of the increase in health costs, estimated at 78% in industrialized countries, was due to demographic factors, including an aging population.
3.3.7.
Older adults and independence
While independence can refer to many different things when describing different people -- for example, financial, social or psychological independence -- the appearance with age of one or more physical disabilities, combined with various irreversible effects of aging itself and perhaps aggravated by a handicap, may seriously impair an older person's independence.
As many older adults can testify, however, the development of gerontology and geriatrics has removed any direct relationship between aging and disability, illness and dependence.
The probability of disability and handicap does, however, increase with age.
In 1991, 4.2 million Canadian (15.5% of the population) claimed to be disabled in some way:  7% of children aged less than 15 years, 8% of people aged 15-34 years, 14% of people aged 35-54 years, 27.1% of people aged 55-64 years and 45% of people aged 65 years and over (including 37% of people aged 65-74 years, 54% of people aged 75-84 years and 82% of people aged 85 years and over).
Among the most frequently mentioned disabilities are mobility and agility problems such as arthritis and rheumatism (55% of respondents), hearing deficiencies (43%), eyesight deficiencies (24%), hypertension (39%) and respiratory problems (24%).
Interestingly, the rate of dementia among older people is 6%.
According to 1991 data, 20% of older adults require assistance to carry out some of their daily activities.
3.3.8.
Satisfaction with life
More than 90% of individuals 45 years and over are satisfied with their lives, confirming that the quality of life in Canada is very good.
3.3.9.
Marital status
Not surprisingly, since women have a longer life expectancy than men, there are more widows than widowers.
Among Canadians between 65 and 69 years of age, 82% of men but only 53% of women are married.
After 80 years of age, 70% of men are still married, compared to 18% of women.
3.3.10.
Living arrangements
In 1991, according to NACA, 73% of older men and 43% of older women lived in private households with a spouse, while 14% of older men and 34% of older women (of which 40% were over 75 years) lived alone.
In a proportion of 91%, older adults claim no problems with housing.
Statistics Canada has reported that 80% of households headed by an older adults owned their own home, while 29% of adults 65 years and over rented their home.
The figures are not the same for women, however:  the proportion of women renters increases with age (28% for women 65-69 years old and 48% for women aged 80 years and over).
Finally, between 41% and 46% of social housing units are occupied by older adults.
3.3.11.
Educational level and school attendance of older adults
In 1986, about 27% of Canadians aged 65 years and over had graduated from high school or a post-secondary institution. Furthermore, this percentage will almost certainly increase in the coming decades.
The increase is already under way:
between 1984 and 1991, registrations in adult education programs and educational activities organized by Elderhostel grew from 3,000 to 15,000; similarly, those in Creative Retirement Manitoba programs grew from 200 to 3,000.
NACA estimates that the percentage of registration in adult education programs will increase 94% by 2005 and 141% by 2010.
3.3.12.
Literacy among older adults
As there is a direct, positive relationship between literacy and educational level, it is not surprising to find that illiteracy is more prevalent among older Canadians than among young adults.
For example, while close to three Canadians in four between 16 and 34 years of age have sufficient skills to meet the requirements of everyday life, this proportion drops to one in three for people 55 to 69 years of age.
Furthermore, there is a correlation between the age at which a language is learned and the acquisition of reading ability in that language.
Literacy is therefore a particularly serious problem for older immigrants.
About 2 million people, or 64% of Canadians between 55 and 69 years of age, have difficulty using written material. If this situation is not attended to immediately, it will cause serious problems in coming years as this cohort gets older.
The higher literacy among succeeding generations, however, should alleviate the problem.
In response to a national conference organized in 1990 by One Voice - The Canadian Seniors Network, a Canadian coalition for literacy among older Canadians will be established to encourage literacy among this age group.
3.3.13.
How do older adults spend their time?
Despite the previous figures, however, this group's most popular activity is reading newspapers, magazines and books:  67% of people aged 45-64 years, 65% of those aged 65-69 years, 64% of those aged 70-74 years, 63% of those aged 75-79 years and 57% of those aged 80 years or more participate in this activity.
Of seniors aged 65-74 years, 66% go out to a restaurant or the theatre once per month, as do 50% of seniors aged 75 and over.
More than half of older adults have purchased recreational equipment (sporting goods, video cameras or VCRs) and use related services.
On average, 51% of adults aged 45-64 years, 50% of those aged 65-80 years and 35% of those 80 years and older take regular walks.
Television is a recreational activity for 42% of adults aged 45-64 years and 51% of those aged 65 years and older.
Women watch 4.1 hours per day, compared with 3.7 hours for men.
Social activities, such as visiting or receiving friends or relatives, have an important place in the life of 48% of adults aged 45-64 years and 47% of those 65 years and over.
On average, 39% of people 65 years and over attend church, visit community or shopping centres or are members of an association.
3.3.14.
Retirement
In 1991, the average retirement age was 62 years. Among the main factors influencing an individual's decision to retire are health status, age, job characteristics, income, spouse's retirement and pressure on the job.
In 1991, there were 1.7 million men and 2 million women aged 55 years or more in the labour force.
3.3.15.
What about seniors' incomes?
While older adults' economic situation has improved in recent decades, many older Canadians -- 4% of elderly couples -- still had incomes below the low-income cutoff in 1990 (in 1980, this percentage was 13%).
Among older men living alone, this proportion fell from 53% to 26%; among older women living alone, it fell from 60% to 38%.
In 1986, 18% of men aged 65-69 years had incomes below $10,000, compared to 48% of women (60% of these older adults were disabled in some way).
In 1990, 39% of women and 33% of men aged 65 years and over received Guaranteed Income Supplements, while 70% of women aged 90 years and over received these benefits.
Interestingly, however, statistics show that older adults pay more than 20 billion dollars in taxes; that they consume goods and services heavily; that 70% of adults 65 years old and over believe that their income and investments are sufficient for their future needs; and that 67% of future retirees consider that they will have enough income when they retire.
A distinction should be made, however, between poverty statistics (which are based exclusively on income and do not consider assets) and people's perceptions of themselves as poor.
According to 1986 statistics, seniors' main sources of personal income were the following:
Canada and Quebec pension plans, which provided 14% of seniors' total     incomes (16% for men and 11% for women);
employers' pension, which provided 16% of their income (20% for men and     11% for women);
in 1989, 50% of men and 39% of women were covered by private retirement     plans, although the figures vary among occupational groups:  75% of     unionized workers, 73% of public sector workers, 53% of full-time     employees, 39% of private sector workers, 30% of non-unionized workers     and 24% of part-time employees.
With respect to seniors' assets, note that 91% of home-owners aged 65 years and over have completely paid off their mortgages (68% of those aged 55-59 years and 84% of those aged 65-70 years). The overall breakdown of seniors' assets is as follows:
Distribution of assets among older adults
Retirement plans
Registered retirement plans
Other investments
Principal residence
Mortgage-free residence
Other real estate investments
57%
67%
37%
80%
66%
25%
To summarize:
older adults pay 20 billion dollars in taxes;
in 1991, 20% of adults aged 65 years or older were living on an income     below the low-income cutoff;
of those living alone, average incomes were lowest for young people     (15 to 24 years of age) and those 65 years and older:  $14,935 and     $18,056, respectively;
women 65 years and older living alone formed the group in which low     incomes were most prevalent;
in 1991, median family income for seniors and non-family persons was     $48,300; average income was $40,036.
3.3.16.
Social action among people 55 years and older
Not only do seniors contribute to the national economy by paying taxes and consuming goods and services, they also contribute socially by doing volunteer work (more than 30% of people 65 years and older), providing various types of social support, helping their own children and grandchildren organize their lives, giving to charities, and so on.
3.3.17.
Predictions for the 21st century
According to Statistics Canada's projections of population demographics by age group, the population of Canada will be 29,297,100 on June 1, 2010; close to 30% of these people will be more than 55 years old.
Statistics Canada forecasts that, toward 2020, about 6 million Canadians will be 65 years old or more, and that in 2036 this number will be about 8 million.
The numerical imbalance between the sexes for older adults is expected to continue.
3.4.
Conclusion
To summarize, people 55 years old and over are a very heterogeneous group.
Their interests, activities, living situation, needs, financial situation, health status, and family and social environments must be considered in products designed to serve them.
Moreover, senior adults participate in a wide variety of activities individually, in their families, among friends or in groups.
This group accounted for 20.4% of Canadians in 1991;
by 2010, it is expected to include 29.5% of the population.
The profile of senior Canadians at that time, however, will not be the same as it is today.
For example, seniors will enjoy longer life expectancies and better overall health.
Individuals born in 1960 can expect to live at least 20 years longer than those born at the beginning of the century.
These new generations of older adults will also be increasingly well-educated.
While workers in 1991 were retiring at 62 years of age on average, there are four reasons that suggest that the trend toward earlier retirement will not necessarily continue:
the type of work and the organization of the workplace depend less and     less on physical strength or endurance;
older workers (45-64 years) will remain in good physical and     intellectual condition (much more so than those of similar age who     preceded them);
a shortage of adequately trained, experienced and competent workers     to meet society's needs is forecast for the not-too-distant future;
insufficient income will compel some people to return to the labour     force.
The increase in the number of older adults, especially those over 80 years of age, will create additional demand for research and development to create new products to help a group in which most people have one or more disabilities.
In a society aging at a phenomenal rate, there is ample justification for conducting research and development to create technology better adapted, on the one hand, to seniors' interests and the physiological, psychological and social changes they experience and, on the other hand, to society's changing information and communication needs for the 21st century.
4.
RESEARCH RESULTS
4.1.
Review of the Literature
4.1.1.
Goals and objectives
A review of the literature and in-depth study of documents concerned with technology and relevant in some way to independent older adults was deemed essential to establish a reasonably accurate portrait of the status, as of 1993, of such technologies in Canada and abroad.
This part of the research was guided by two sets of general objectives:
A)
Improve understanding of gerontechnology.
Research of this type was conducted:
to clearly identify the kinds of relationships that may exist between     older adults and CITs;
to gain a firm understanding of the way in which technologies may     become a part of this clientele's everyday activities;
to reveal the technology-related attitudes, needs and behaviour of     various categories of Canadians aged 55 years and over and attempt to     answer the following questions:
Who are these older users?
Why and how     will they use some of these technologies?
What are the incentives and     hurdles to using them?
to identify CIT-related research and development needs in the area of     gerontology.
B)
Establish relationships with industry.
4.1.2.
Methodology
A systematic data base search was relatively straightforward, through the co-operation of a number of reference resources such as the Information Service for Integrated Resources (ISIR) at CITI's Documentation Centre; the Cote des Neiges Hospital library; universities specializing in gerontology; gerontology associations in Quebec and the rest of Canada; the One Voice network; and government and municipal libraries.
In addition, 250 agencies, associations, government departments, universities and other organizations working with older adults at the international, national and provincial level were invited to submit references.
In all, 107 articles were eventually selected from the assembled literature.
Most of these were produced in the United States and Canada, while some came from Europe.
All were published between 1988 and 1993.
4.1.3.
Compilation of results
Clientele under study
Almost all studies place major emphasis on the effects of aging on various variables:  for example, the impact of a number of technological components or a comparison of seniors' performance with that of other age groups.
Since the conclusions do not apply to the same age groups, however, it is very difficult to compare findings.
Although several authors speak out against the tendency to consider older adults as a homogeneous group, very few studies are sensitive to the subtle differences that distinguish one cohort from another.
For while individual characteristics must not be overlooked, each cohort is typified by particular values, historical and psycho-social experiences, mechanisms for adaptation to the environment, and other traits.
These cohorts are better understood by grouping them in various ways according to activities, interests, or life setting.
Suggested groupings are based primarily on:
degree of independence (independent, non-independent, bedridden,     etc.);
handicap (physical, social, mental);
type of residence (house, apartment, low-rental housing, retirement     community, rest home);
recreational pursuits (physical, intellectual, social activities,     etc.);
meeting places (community, medical, social, religious, etc.);
former workplace;
mother tongue.
Studies concerned with handicaps and sensory disabilities
Too often, researchers view older adults and handicapped persons as one and the same clientele.
Clearly, a handicapped person who has grown older does not have to cope with the same problems as an older person who becomes handicapped late in life and who, because of the risk of multi-pathological complications due to age itself, has even more obstacles to overcome than a younger person does.
Although the risk of developing disabilities and handicaps increases significantly with age, studies of physically, mentally or psycho-geriatrically handicapped individuals and technologies designed to serve them have been purposely overlooked in favour of studies of sensory disabilities.
In particular, given the critical importance of the senses in the use of CITs and the increased incidence of sensory impairment with age, this review covers about thirty articles concerned with technologies and sensory (visual, aural and tactile) disabilities or handicaps.
Future research should therefore explore the relationship between CITs and older adults handicapped in one or more ways.
Older adults and technologies reviewed in the research
What follows is an inventory of technological applications recognized as useful for older adults with or without sensory impairment or handicap.
The computer is central to more than half the research devoted to this area.
The computer and its applications appear capable of meeting diverse needs, whether for personal purposes (such as electronic mail, spreadsheets or word processing), for access to information services or for teleworking.
Telephony and telematics (advanced telephone services, video telephone, teleshopping, bank transactions, aural and visual electronic information in public places, etc.) were the topic of 22 studies.
Home automation (to which 21 articles are devoted) is also generating considerable interest because it presents simple technical solutions capable of satisfying multiple, complex requirements arising from home care of individuals with health problems, disabilities or handicaps.
About 12 studies were concerned with alarm systems capable of neutralizing feelings of insecurity and vulnerability (especially among women living alone and handicapped individuals), and therefore likely to encourage older people to continue living at home.
The ten articles concerned with technologies (such as video cameras and VCRs) used for entertainment or heritage conservation purposes have been grouped under the same heading.
Furthermore, five studies were concerned with the use of automated teller machines and cash dispensers.
Completely unexpected findings appeared throughout these studies; a good example concerns older adults' interest in video games and their ability to use them.
Finally, a few studies were concerned with assistance technologies such as hearing aids, telephones for hearing impaired, Braille readers and voice recognition techniques;
two documents discussed bar code readers; and three discussed interactive television.
4.2.
Older adults' attitudes, needs, interests and behaviour
Most attention focussed on studies of older adults' attitudes, needs, interests and behaviour with respect to technology.
This section first groups studies according to the type of technology; they are then reviewed with respect to the role of the technologies in meeting seniors' existing and potential needs; the ability of a particular technology to penetrate this market; obstacles to its use and factors that facilitate learning; seniors' attitudes; and methods for promoting the technology.
4.2.1.
Older adults and technology in general
Effects of aging
In reporting on a major 1991 study concerned with older adults' attitudes toward technology (the TUDOR study), Collins and Bhatti remarked that the factor determining usage of a telecommunications technology is not the user's age but the level of his or her interest and that, consequently, equipment design is important.
Physiological changes due to aging can cause problems for someone learning new technologies and using them.
Girardin (1991) prepared a list of the principal changes (most of which, however, may be overcome through training) that can affect faculties essential for using CITs.
In addition, Madden (1992) reported a positive correlation between an individual's age and his or her average reaction time, which increases with the complexity of the task and is longest for individuals with eyesight problems.
Brooks and Gordon (1988) point out that CIT designers should take account of the following:
12.8% of adults over age 65 suffer from significant eyesight deficits, which show up as a loss of visual acuity and increased difficulty in adapting to darkness and perceiving colours and contrasts.
There is also an age-related decrease in tactile acuity in the fingertips, which reduces the potential for touch-sensitive screens or tactile reading of texts transcribed for this purpose (Stevens, 1992).
According to Czaja and Barr (1989), new technologies must be reconciled with the phenomenon of an aging population; in particular, the various stages of life and the characteristics of older adults (specifically the abilities and limitations that affect them in their everyday lives) must be kept in mind.
They recommend that special attention be given to the workplace environment, home workstations, possible uses of telecommunications for socializing and the educational potential of television.
Care must also be taken to ensure that networks are used optimally and that relevant information is available.
Alpiner and Vaughn (1988) report a loss of hearing acuity after 65 years (one of the five most common chronic afflictions in the United States), which may have important emotional consequences in the lives of older adults.
Since current hearing aid technologies cannot always compensate for problems arising in public listening situations, and since older adults do not want to carry equipment that makes them look old, this problem tends to be overlooked.
Bouchard-Ryan (1985) reports that, age-related memory loss problems notwithstanding, functional memory is a better indicator of video game learning than short-term memory.
The author concludes that regular use of the game and relevant feedback (given on the screen at the end of the game) improves participants' reaction speed, regardless of age.
Profile of older technology consumers
A particular profile typifies older adults who understand the usefulness of new technologies.
Festervand and Wylde (1988), Harris (1988), Blaich (1991) and Chappell (unpublished, 1993) describe older consumers favourable to technology as educated; urban; considerably younger than average; more active; financially well off; and possessing some prior experience with current technologies in one form or another.
On the other hand, sex, health status and the quality of social relationships do not seem to directly influence people's opinions.
Older adults having several of these characteristics are viewed as leaders within their cohort and act as the best means of promoting the technology.
Gilly and Zeithaml (1985) write that today's older adults have already adjusted to many technological changes and can certainly do it again if made aware of the technology in the appropriate way.
They suggest dealing directly with older adults, who demand adequate information before adopting an innovation.
When computers were marketed to consumers, for example, they were completely ignored.
Older adults show strong emotional reactions when asked to use a technology involving inappropriately designed equipment and unsatisfactory information on the existence, usefulness or advantages of possible applications (Brooks and Gordon, 1988).
Jay and Willis (1992) confirm that older persons' attitudes can be modified by experience, which itself depends on training, product user-friendliness and products' ability to meet several needs.
Several researchers, including Robert Kane, have advocated that particular attention be directed to the possible impacts of technological innovations on people's lives.
An assessment of the appropriateness of a particular technology for older adults should not be based solely on immediate circumstances but should take account of consequences for society.
Role of technologies
Research has shown that, contrary to popular belief, older adults generally have a rather positive attitude toward technology.
As Bjorneby (1991) and most other authors point out, however, seniors' attitudes are always favourable to the extent that they perceive some payoff such as the potential for meeting one or more of their needs or improving their health, quality of life or safety.
They recognize that they rely on technology to preserve their independence.
Technologies are viewed as useful to the extent that they alleviate seniors' concerns.
Older consumers will modify their behaviour if two conditions are met:  first, the technology must be useful to them; second, someone must make them aware of its advantages, demystify it and adequately train them (Harris, 1988).
Older adults will be interested in any equipment, appliance or service likely to improve their quality of life, or in any innovation capable of linking them to information systems and providing them with services at home (Gilly and Zeithaml, 1985).
According to Stunkel (1991), CITs can be used for distance education, teleshopping and remote medical consultation. They also increase the efficiency of existing distribution networks.
Older adults appear to take easily to the following applications:  remote medical consultations; home workstations; custom telephone calling services; and systems for electronic reading, direct payment in supermarkets and electronic funds transfer (Gilly and Zeithaml, 1985).
Blaich (1992) recommends that product designers consider the entertainment value of the system to the user; his or her ability to dominate the system; installation cost and complexity; and the possibility of adding functions through modular design.
Elmer-Dewit (1993) describes the unprecedented potential of electronic highways for meeting the daily needs of seniors.
A number of interactive services for teleshopping, consulting databases at libraries or other institutions, and communicating with financial institutions are already available.
New technologies will become increasingly important in our aging society, especially with the development of advanced medical technologies.
Hindrances to the use of CITs by seniors
The most frequently cited hindrances are cost, a lack of awareness and training and problems with user-friendliness.
La Buda (1988) also notes that older adults are very concerned that certain equipment may make them look older or marginalize them.
Stewart (1991) reviews problems experienced by older adults in coping with images, sound, the keyboard and the interface, by relating these to the effects of aging.
He then recommends an ergonomic approach to the entire design process that would consider such characteristics of the older user as size, weight, strength, endurance and limitations.
Watzke (1992) takes a similar approach to home automation by recommending elimination of obstacles (such as lighting, stairways or floor coverings) that can cause falls.
While older adults take a fairly positive attitude toward technology, they do not act readily on these attitudes.
For example, Gilly and Zeithaml (1985) conclude that a very small percentage of older adults intend to experiment with technologies such as the computer and that very few adults aged 65 years and older (less than 1% in the United States) actually use these technologies.
Bouchard-Ryan (1986) cautions those who promote CITs to older adults that they should recognize that the later stages of life create significant needs, that certain factors may limit the usefulness of computers and that an individual's vitality and sociability can be negatively affected by computer overuse.
Another problem has been brought to the attention of specialists in gerontechnology.
Trencher (1988) complains of the lack of co-ordination and communication between designers, sellers, users and professionals in promoting new products, programs or technology-based services capable of improving the quality of life for older adults and compensating for a number of age-related disabilities.
Older adults' technology-related attitudes and needs and technical capabilities vary greatly among nations and among continents, making any comparison difficult.
Van Noorden and McEwan (1991) describe one of the European RACE program projects that attempts to demonstrate that telecommunications services (implementation of video telephones) may help individuals with motor, speech or eyesight disabilities.
The authors note, for example, that older German adults do not want the technology to look like office equipment, and that Portuguese seniors reject anything having to do with telecommunication as too complicated.
They conclude, nonetheless, that video telephone technology is easy for older adults to use and, by compensating for certain disabilities, may facilitate social relationships and improve the quality of their lives.
Marketing, technology and seniors
Furlong (1989) complains that the computer revolution neglected 35 million adults aged 55 years and older, that is, 20% of the total population.
Similarly, Blaich (1991) indicates that American consumers aged 50 and over account for 47% of the potential market and 77% of household spending power and that older and younger clients' profiles are similar in a number of respects.
Importantly, pre-retirees or retirees have more time for recreational activities and spend more time at home.
La Buda (1988) points out that the needs and characteristics of older users must be understood and that companies must market products more actively to this clientele.
Older adults represent a new, vast, diverse population that is fertile ground for telecommunications technologies (Stunkel, 1991).
The technology should adapt to the consumer, not the contrary.
Monk (1988) comments that while technology can harm older persons if used inappropriately, it can play an important role in seniors' everyday lives (by breaking their isolation) if used correctly.
Bowe (1988) warns that manufacturers should design their products so as not to marginalize senior adults, who want to feel as if they belong in the community.
Otherwise, as happened with Videotext in Florida, manufacturers may not get through to their target population.
Note, too, that technology is developing more rapidly than psychology.
Learning of CITs by older adults "You are never too old to learn." Rudick Roger (1988)
Gilly and Zeithaml (1985), in reviewing the process of adoption of new technologies, conclude that it follows the following model:
knowledge;
persuasion;
decision;
implementation.
Bouwhuis (1991) has demonstrated the need for thoroughly understanding the learning process and for working within the bounds of users' perceptual capabilities.
Research by Bouchard-Ryan (1992) demonstrated that aging can have a significant impact on performance of a computer learning task.
In Rott's (1988) opinion, older adults' judgments regarding CITs are shaped by their motivation for using the technologies and on perceived positive aspects or potential dangers, which in turn are influenced by an interaction between educational level and previous experience.
Rott claims that programs to instruct seniors in the use of CITs will not be maximally effective and helpful unless their cost is reduced and they are made more accessible.
By using current distribution networks more efficiently, CITs can play a role in satisfying increasing demand for adult education and distance education.
For this to work, however, older adults must possess (and know how to use) basic equipment such as computers and modems.
Among the advantages of CITs for such an application are their ability to work with instructional material in different formats (Young, 1989; Stunkel, 1991).
Straka (1986) published a revealing study, based on results of a 1981 survey of Americans aged 45 years and over, of older adults' behaviour with respect to new technologies.
As this survey is already over ten years old, the percentages may be slightly different today; they still, however, reflect the dissonance between discourse and behaviour.
Here is a summary of the results of this survey:
37% of subjects subscribed to cable television service;
8% used a video cassette recorder;
50% used a calculator;
50% claimed that technology had not really made their daily life     easier;
50% said that machines did so much of the work that there was not much     left to do;
87% said that they make life very impersonal;
87% said that people could do things faster and better using     technologies;
34% claimed that life would be easier and better when people could do     everything from home using telephone and cable;
women watch more television than men, regardless of age;
watching     increases at about age 55, reaches its peak at 70 years, and decreases     afterwards.
Eilers (1989) draws relationships between educational level, the use of electronic tools such as the VCR or calculator and older adults' attitudes and behaviour.
She claims that older adults would be more interested in learning to use a computer if they were provided with adequate instructions, preferably by their peers.
What do older adults look for in a technology?
Most of the researches show that older adults who adopt CITs want to improve the quality of their lives.
They have the following objectives:
learn;
satisfy general curiosity, keep up with the times;
remain mentally active;
encourage social contact between generations;
develop new friendships based on common interests;
improve their self-esteem;
improve memory and skills;
increase feelings of accomplishment;
control the environment;
make some extra money.
4.2.2.
Principal conclusions related to particular technologies
Telephone
Bowe (1990) indicates that 70% of Americans aged 51 and over, as well as of those with sensory, physical or learning disabilities, are interested in using CITs as long as they don't have to purchase a computer, modem or any other equipment (although 16% of those 51 years old and over already have a personal computer and modem).
Seniors are, however, prepared to pay up to $14 extra per month for new telephone services, of which three were seen as priorities:
electronic directories;
home safety (fire and burglar alarms, etc.);
medical advice.
Like most researchers, Infante-Rivard (1988) points out that the telephone is the technological tool that older adults find easiest to use and integrate most easily into such daily activities as socializing, conducting bank transactions and obtaining medical care. Furthermore, it is essential in emergencies.
The author notes that older adults find it easy to discuss their health over the telephone, accept advice regarding healthy life habits, and seek out recommendations on how to care for minor problems.
Telephone contact between older adults and health professionals may reduce the demand for medical services and cause the frequency of medical consultations to decline.
They also provide emotional comfort and serve to reassure family members.
The key role of telephone systems in older adults' homes is underestimated; moreover, available services are poorly adapted to the needs of this clientele.
For example, while 99% of Swedish seniors believe that the telephone is essential to their life and more than 50% of them have two or three telephones, 32% would like their telephone to be linked to an emergency response system, 15% would like a telephone with memory and 34% wished that the directory were easier to use (they find the printing too small and the presentation incoherent).
Several respondents suggested that telephone booths should be better insulated from background noise (Collins et al, 1991; Östlund, 1993).
Moreover, Van Noorden and McEwan (1991) conclude that advanced telecommunications services such as video telephones may be useful to older adults with one or more disabilities.
When uncomplicated and easy to use, video telephones could establish contact between the home and an assistance centre, encourage social interaction, make it possible for responders to quickly obtain more complete information on a patient's status, provide an impression that someone is present and facilitate comprehension for those with hearing problems.
Telephones can foster autonomy in older adults whose mobility has been reduced and, at the same time, make professional services designed for them less cumbersome.
In addition, audiovisual material encourages high-quality interaction without generating a fear of technology (Robinson, 1991).
Access to telephone systems designed for active and passive monitoring, listening and emergency response must be encouraged.
Trickey (1993) claims that these systems will be more easily accepted if their advantages and operating instructions are more adequately presented and if the differences between the various types of systems are explained.
Video cassette recorder
While recognizing the recreational, informational and educational value of video cassette recorders (VCRs), Fletcher (1986) reviewed their appropriateness for certain projects.
By recording reminiscences on audio or video tape, seniors foster a sense of continuity within the family, gain an opportunity to preserve their knowledge, wisdom and experience and help to strengthen family identity.
Seniors who feel a profound need to tell their story could use this process, as could younger people who want to know about the past or find their place in their family tree.
Yahnke (1989) strongly suggests using VCRs for educational films that involve older adults while meeting certain standards.
In addition, he recommends that such equipment be used to create documentaries, portraits of real or fictional persons and concrete illustrations of the aging process.
Computer
The United States contains a pool of 35 million older potential computer users (Rudick, 1992).
These individuals, who already consume heavily, will constitute a growing market.
The percentage of seniors using the computer will increase phenomenally in the near future, as those currently on the job market retire.
Among other services, older adults would like access to health information, teleshopping and home banking (Recio, 1990).
Attitudes toward the computer
Older adults express fear and reluctance toward new technologies such as the computer (Bouchard-Ryan, 1989).
Seniors view the technology as worthwhile only if accompanied by satisfactory information concerning potential advantages and applications specifically relevant to them.
In addition, there are a number of negative attitudes toward (and prejudices against) older adults with respect to their ability or skill in using computers.
Most frequently heard are these:
the older people get, the less capable they are of using computers;
seniors who do manage to do this are not representative of their age     group.
Contact between health professionals and older adults using the telephone and computer may be appropriate for seniors (especially those in remote areas), particularly since older adults tend to complain about their relationships with their doctor (Greenberger and Puffer, 1989).
Bouchard-Ryan (1990), in a portrait of the interaction between older adults and computers, points out that, while older adults have adapted to many technological changes since the beginning of the 20th century, they have more difficulty with the computer -- even if it is widely used throughout society and could improve the quality of daily life considerably.
FThe author provides some statistics on seniors' attitudes toward computers:
40% of those aged 45-64 years, 34% of those aged 55-64 years and 20% of those 65 years and older view this technology favourably.
She explains the attitude of the older respondents as follows:
they don't need it; they can't use it; and they are concerned by their relationship with the machine since the human dimension of various aspects of life increases in importance with age.
Previous experience with technology and a positive attitude toward the phenomenon are two of the most important factors favouring adoption of the computer.
Interestingly, attitudes are shaped by income.
In keeping with other findings in the area, Hahm and Bickson (1989) precisely identified the factors influencing adoption and use of computers (specifically electronic mail and working in networks) by retirees:  some knowledge of the technology, sufficient financial resources and a fairly strong educational background.
Older adults are looking for different things depending on their age bracket:
people aged 40-64 years want efficiency and safety;
people aged 65-74 years want comfort and safety;
people over 75 like programs, services and equipment that can help them     in their everyday lives (Bouchard-Ryan, 1990).
Obstacles to the use of computers by older adults
Stewart (1991) explains that older adults may experience a number of problems when using computers, for the following reasons:
they have more to unlearn from their accumulated experience;
their faculties are diminished;
they harbour certain fears, probably caused by their own or others'     previous unfortunate experiences;
they are afraid of making mistakes;
they have preferences, needs and requirements that the marketplace     ignores;
they have doubts about the proclaimed wonders and benefits of this     technology.
Stewart notes, however, that the real problem can be found in unsatisfactory computer design, which does not consider the user's size, strength and limitations.
The computer should be easy to understand and use, safe, attractive, practical, made of appropriate materials and durable; in addition, its performance should justify its cost.
There is a relationship between people's facility in using the equipment and their motivation to do so.
Older adults have positive attitudes toward technological changes and computers if they find these innovations useful in some way (Recio, 1990).
As seniors form a heterogeneous group, however, close attention should be paid to their various attitudes, perceptions and modes of learning.
The higher the income of older adults, the more education they have and the more interest they take in technological products -- if they see any use in them.
Design, cost and system compatibility problems must be solved.
Potential older users will accept any simple, attractive technology designed specifically for this group and marketed adequately (La Buda, 1988).
Care should be taken to avoid situations that may provoke negative reactions in older adults and cause them to become discouraged. Older adults, particularly those undergoing rehabilitation for physical disabilities, are prone to anxiety (Ujimoto, 1992).
Seniors react emotionally to equipment intended for them but poorly designed.
Charness (1990) comments that, since design rules and standards generally do not consider population aging, the usefulness of such equipment for older adults is limited.
The risks of overuse and isolation can have an impact on various facets of life.
If technologies such as the computer reduce social contact, they run counter to stated objectives (Östlund, 1992).
In addition, a number of older adults may engage in behaviour best described as passive.
The technical benefits should be consistent with the user's objectives.
For example, retired people have an ample supply of free time; therefore, they may not care if computers save time or not.
Teaching older adults to use computers
Learning a computer-related task depends on training, not attitudes.
The effects of age on this process must be assessed using paradigms derived from perception and attitude research.
Even if young people are often better at performing tasks requiring particular skills and show higher success rates when learning tasks, the learning abilities of people aged 55 and over must not be underestimated (Bouchard-Ryan, 1991; Czaja et al, 1989; Furlong, 1990).
While attitudes toward the computer tend to become more negative with age, older adults who undergo training designed specifically for them obtain results similar to younger people (Zandri, 1989).
Such training should be designed with the following ideas in mind:
it is much more economical to conduct training in two-person teams;
older adults take twice as long to learn as younger people;
they should be able to learn at their own rate, with an instructor     available to answer their questions;
their attitudes are intimately linked to their performance.
While older adults have ambiguous attitudes toward technology in general and computers in particular, they are willing to adapt to these technologies and learn the skills necessary for doing so.
These attitudes can be modified through direct experience and depend on training, comfort and computer efficiency (Jay and Willis, 1992).
McNeely (1991) confirms that while age, level of education and previous keyboard experience are important factors, do not determine learning achievement.
Eilers (1989), in reviewing the receptivity to training of older workers, concluded that they managed to learn despite initial negative attitudes.
Older workers can use computers to make a smooth transition between the labour force and retirement.
Eilers gives the following examples of factors creating resistance to participation in a computer training course:  course taught by a younger instructor; competition with younger students; program too mathematical or career-oriented; and problems caused by one or more physical disabilities.
Older adults' computer needs
There is an immediate, crying need for computer skills among older adults.
Since the client profile changes regularly, the clientele is becoming more diversified and needs are changing, the system should be flexible (Merrill, 1992).
Furlong, from the SeniorNet network in the United States, has remarked that older adults want intellectual stimulation and have a great deal of patience and perseverence.
Computers and telecommunications are more than a means by which seniors can gain access to information:  they can meet, work on individual or joint projects, communicate among themselves, and get emotional support as well.
They view these technologies as a means of participating in contemporary culture and staying in touch with the world.
Older Swedish adults have accepted the computer well.
While some adaptation (particularly with respect to visual accessibility) remains to be made, computer technology has had positive effects (Östlund, 1992).
A number of factors encourage seniors to participate in computer-related activities.
Therapists and others who work with older adults should receive training to assist seniors losing their autonomy in using this equipment.
Therefore, the abilities of new generations of older adults with respect to new technologies, (including the computer) should not be overlooked.
It is no longer acceptable to extrapolate to tomorrow's older adults from experiments conducted with seniors of yesteryear (Kautzmann, 1990).
Students in occupational therapy and others who work with older adults should be made aware of the recreational possibilities of the computer.
Such activities can improve seniors' self-esteem and self-mastery; in addition, this approach can improve interaction with this clientele.
One can expect that the attitudes and behaviour of the baby-boom generation with respect to technology, especially computers, will have a major impact on the use of technological devices (Chin, 1985).
Television
After the telephone, television is the technology most thoroughly integrated into the lives of retirees (Greenberger and Puffer, 1989; Caron et al, 1992).
Erkert notes that American adults aged 70 and over watch twice as much television as the national average.
This quite probably reflects the phenomenon of substitution, in which relationships established with program hosts or actors compensate for a lack of genuine emotional ties.
Straka (1986) notes that women watch more television than men, regardless of age.
Television watching begins to increase at about age 55, reaches its peak at age 70 and declines afterwards.
While television is usually a source of entertainment, 34% of those interviewed by this researcher claimed that life would be easier and better when transactions take place from home, using telephone and cable.
Older adults are also largely responsible for the increased use of media for educational purposes.
Various forms of captioning enable older hearing-impaired adults to participate more easily in simple activities of everyday social life such as attending meetings or workshops; care must be taken, however, that characters do not leave the screen too fast or that the size of characters is appropriate to clients' abilities (Howe and Graham, 1990).
Sensory assistance equipment
As mentioned above, this review only covers research concerned with sensory disabilities or handicaps.
Most of these studies look at technologies that compensate for auditory or visual handicaps.
As a rule, older adults are reluctant to use assistive devices that may marginalize them or make them look older (Alpiner and Vaughn, 1988; Bowe, 1988).
Attitudes toward hearing aids are somewhat more negative than those toward eyeglasses, which are more common because people of all ages wear them.
Alpiner (1988) points out that attitudes toward hearing aids range from full acceptance to uncertainty and rejection.
Senior adults who gradually lose their hearing have very specific problems, which are largely misunderstood.
Pehringer (1989) notes that the network of alternative resources is not sufficiently well developed and accessible to make home autonomy possible on a broader scale.
As Parker and Thorslund (1991) point out, this conclusion applies to many types of technical assistance intended for older adults.
Their research revealed that little is known about these products because information is not available;
they suggest that further information be disseminated to the general public, professionals who work with seniors, the staff of institutions, and the older adults who need it.
While recognizing this problem of access to information, Trencher (1988) identifies other obstacles, such as the interest of professionals.
Some time must be expected to pass before those with a direct interest in the equipment (seniors and care professionals) find out about them and take an interest.
Trencher also notes that these products are not always commercially viable.
Whitten (1988) adds that advantage should be taken of seniors' talents and experience throughout the process of designing and installing these assistance devices, so that the equipment can in fact help to maintain seniors' independence and society can give them an opportunity to earn an income despite their disability.
Home automation
Several researchers present home automation, or the smart house, as an advanced option for providing home care and for compensating for age-related disabilities.
The changes that occur at retirement (as well as their causes) must be thoroughly understood, before technological applications or programs likely to help older adults remain independent as long as possible can be identified.
Quite often, the following kinds of changes occur:
the children leave home;
income decreases substantially;
health problems are more common;
activities become increasingly limited;
there may be housing problems;
eventually, one of the spouses may die, or one or both may be     institutionalized (Struyk, 1988).
In addition, older adults' needs vary considerably depending on their status as home-owner or renter, their financial situation, their race, their residence (urban vs rural) and their problems of daily living related to age or physical limitations.
Prud'homme (1986) points out that it is difficult to distinguish housing needs from more general needs for assistance.
Therefore, housing needs must be specified precisely, if satisfactory home automation services are to be provided.
In addition, a number of problems are not specific to older adults but affect the entire population.
Smart houses will increase older adults' self-esteem if designed to encourage their autonomy in conducting their everyday activities such as bank transactions (Östlund, 1992).
Home automation facilitates working at home and provides access to entertainment and telecommunications. In addition, it encourages access to information, makes the home more energy efficient and enables older adults and disabled persons to remain at home for longer periods (Chin, 1985; Girardin, 1991; Östlund, 1992).
There are, however, a number of problems with home automation in general and applications intended for older consumers in particular.
In addition to problems related to installation costs or difficulties, smart houses have the additional disadvantage of being designed for a specific stage of life without any thought given to changes and transitions that affect the individual throughout his or her life.
As older adults want to remain independent and at home as long as possible, provision must be made for diminished perception and abilities that make people more vulnerable late in life.
Whitten (1988) reminds the home automation industry that, to better meet the needs of older adults, they must actively consult seniors (disabled or not) in the design and installation process.
Watzke and Kemp (1992) consider that home automation offers interesting prevention possibilities.
Accidents are the fifth most common cause of death in the United States; in addition, falls are the most frequent accidents among older people, accounting for 70% of fatal accidents for those aged 65 and over.
Most falls occur because older adults do not adjust their activities and demands on the environment to their ability level; various devices in an smart house (such as lighting systems that come on when a person walks by or devices sensitive to loss of balance and falls) could remedy this problem.
Automated teller machines
Very little research has examined the use of automated teller machines (ATMs). Moreover, while existing research is not very recent, their findings corroborate more current results regarding technology in general.
Gilly and Zeithaml (1985) claim that older adults are a growing segment of consumers in this market segment.
Since older consumers adopt a favourable attitude if the technology meets their needs and if they are well informed, they will probably accept the behavioural change introduced by automated teller machines.
In addition, they are quite favourable to electronic funds transfer systems:  44% of those who requested information on this technology were older.
In Europe, Rudinger et al (1991) reviewed technological applications used by older adults, such as public transport ticket dispensers.
One of their conclusions is that designers of these terminals should eliminate all possible confusion regarding the type of information dispensed and provide for a response delay consistent with older adults' reaction times.
Alarm systems
Most studies of alarm or security systems were conducted in Europe.
Collins et al (1992) remark that 20% of Dutch seniors have an alarm system, which gives them a feeling of safety, but that 33% of seniors who possessed a portable system were not carrying it when they needed it.
In 1991 and 1992, Östlund conducted several studies on this topic which reviewed, among other things, older adults' behaviour with respect to residential alarm systems.
She concluded that retirees tend to select residences equipped with these devices because they can then plan to live safely at home for longer periods.
Seniors will not trust these systems unless they thoroughly understand how they work and are sufficiently skilled at using them.
Finally, such systems lighten families' burden of responsibility.
Care givers, however, may be the only daily contact for people connected to these emergency response systems.
These devices do nothing to alleviate dependence, solitude and isolation.
The idea of waiting for someone to come once the alarm has been sounded may in fact increase anxiety.
Older adults themselves are not the chief proponents of these systems.
5.
INDUSTRY SURVEY
5.1.
Goals and objectives
The second component of the study examines relevant issues from the point of view of private sector firms interested in developing CITs to serve people with special needs.
5.2.
Methodology
This component of the study was concerned with roughly ten technological applications.
In all, 25 private firms and about 30 government agencies and other Canadian or foreign organizations with an interest in older adults were identified.
The heads of marketing, research, public relations and customer service departments were contacted.
In telephone interviews, respondents were asked the extent to which their organization was interested in older adults, what services it offered them and, if appropriate, why they were not interested in this clientele.
In addition, results from respondents' own in-house surveys and market studies were collected, accompanied by comments confirming the importance of this study and expressing a desire to be informed of the results and, possibly, take part in research and development to address these issues.
What follows is a summary of their responses, which clearly indicates the nature of their concerns with respect to older adults.
5.2.1.
Banking industry
Very few studies or statistics on the use of various banking services are available.
For example, the banking industry was not particularly concerned with older adults when implementing automatic teller machines.
It was not until the implementation process was under way or completed that any attention was paid to serving this clientele.
One Canadian bank explains this by pointing out that only 13% of its customers are 55 years of age or older.
Furthermore, it appears that 88% of its older customers do not want bank cards, preferring to be served at the counter.
(Note, however, that 10% do have a card and have used it while 2% have a card but have never used it.)
This behaviour can be explained by:
fear of machines, especially among oldest customers;
fear of making a mistake;
intolerance toward having to wait in line in front of a machine (they     are more tolerant of the same wait if they know that they will be served     by a person).
The caisse populaire and credit union movement, recognized as the banking institution preferred by retirees, conducted an internal survey of older adults' use of automatic banking services.
Here is a summary of their findings:
40% of retirees (aged 55 and over) personally carry one or more     automatic teller machine cards; 75% of these people have only one card,     while 13% have two;
48% of retirees used their card(s) an average of 6.7 times in the month     preceding the survey; 95% of the time they withdrew funds, while 34% of     the time they made a deposit;
during this month, people aged 65 years and over used their cards     6.8 times to make a direct payment, compared with 4.2 times for younger     people.
5.2.2.
Visual Communication Network (Réseau de communication visuelle)
In 1992, the research firm CROP conducted an opinion survey for the Montreal Urban Community Transport Corporation to gauge the attitudes and perceptions of riders with reduced mobility regarding the Visual Communication Network (Réseau de communication visuelle).
The following riders were surveyed:
visually impaired people;
hearing impaired people;
older adults.
Older adults were very interested by this new application of technology, were not intimidated by it and even expressed a desire to co-operate in this kind of experiment right from the design stage, so that their needs would be better understood.
Seniors' reactions indicated that the VCN should take account of the following:
voice clarity and volume (there is no preference for male or female     voices);
display time (displays are easier to read if they last longer);
there should be fewer advertising messages and they should not go so     fast;
there should be more information on transfers, upcoming stations,     where to go to take a bus;
there should be more practical information;
weather and news messages were found to be very useful;
advertising messages could be more informative.
5.2.3.
Cable television and interactive television
The cable firm Videotron appears to be well informed regarding the profile of its older subscribers and indicates a willingness to accommodate them.
In June 1992, Videotron commissioned the New Technologies Research Laboratory (Laboratoire de recherche sur les nouvelles technologies) at the University of Montreal to conduct a study of subscriber acceptance of its new Videoway technology (Analyse de l'adoption d'une nouvelle technologie : le système VIDEOWAY).
The study found that 12% of subscribers were aged 55 years and over; furthermore, 76% subscribe to both Videoway and pay television, while 24% subscribed only to Videoway.
The researchers obtained valuable information about the user-friendliness of the Videoway system, in that 70% of respondents found the system fairly or very easy to use but that only 30% were fully comfortable with it.
They also asked respondents about the variety of services accessible at all times; on the time spent playing games; and on their preferences toward one or the other of these options.
A total of 32% of interactive television viewers are 55 years of age or over; furthermore, 60% of these viewers watched interactive programs in the weeks preceding the interview.
On average, seniors consume 16 hours and 32 minutes of pay television per week, including 6 hours and 10 minutes on weekends. They watch an average of 22 hours and 26 minutes of conventional television each week.
The researchers conclude that people aged 55 years and over do not necessarily use the various system components more often, but stay with a particular component significantly longer each time they do use it (this is as true for games as for other telematic services).
In addition, they are heavy consumers of conventional television.
5.2.4.
Telephone
One Canadian telephone company has also studied the characteristics of users aged 50 and over in an internal survey designed to establish the profile of this clientele and identify their current and future telephone needs.
The survey found that:
today's seniors are wealthier and healthier than their predecessors,     and this trend is continuing;
with 55% of discretionary purchasing power, they are a significant     retail market for a number of services;
this is a clientele sought after by financial institutions;     manufacturers of personal care products, upscale merchandise and     health-related products; travel agencies; and relaxation centres     (spas and health clubs);
these consumers are nonetheless educated; determined to ask questions     and take their time to find the right product; and demanding of     quality;
this is not a homogeneous group but multiple cohorts with diverse     interests, values and needs.
The survey also contains information on the attitudes of consumers aged 50-64 years and 65 years and over toward a number of other services. Finally, it provided some highly interesting information on the potential of telecommunications products and services, as well as products and services now available to older adults or that could be made available to them.
5.2.5.
Security systems manufacturers
While this industry does not design its products to meet the needs of target clienteles, one of the firms interviewed is developing new portable alarm systems and other assistance devices (such as collars, bracelets and blood pressure or respiratory rate sensing devices) that may be appropriate for adults and seniors with health problems.
This firm does not, however, have any way to determine whether these products meet the needs of older people, nor is it conducting research and development for new products intended for this age group.
5.2.6.
Home automation
General Electric of Canada (GEC), which participated in a project for handicapped persons and older adults, reports that a very small percentage of the population uses the sophisticated functions of electronic devices used in home automation and that the products most in demand are those that are easiest to use.
While all common household appliances could be considered part of home automation, smart houses are turning out to be more complex and costly, and less user-friendly, than was originally believed.
The first pilot home automation project, an apartment adapted for an individual with reduced mobility, was carried out in Quebec by the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) in co-operation with the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ).
5.2.7.
Computers
Despite a good deal of research, the computer industry was the most difficult to approach because staff turnover is high, research and development is carried out in the United States, Canadian branches are primarily sales offices, and so on.
Representatives from two major computer companies were interviewed.
These individuals reported that their companies had not conducted any surveys regarding older adults' use of computers or the interests or needs of this group.
One of the companies markets solely to business, domestic, educational and government clients.
Older adults do not fall into any of these categories. Moreover, the over-40 group is not seen as a priority for investment.
This company has, however, specialized in technologies adapted for handicapped persons, such as voice recognition, adapted keyboards and special character fonts.
The other company showed some interest in special client groups but so far has not embarked on any research projects, at least in Canada.
The company has, however, co-operated on several smaller projects concerned with older adults.
The respondents wanted to remain informed of any proposed CITI projects, and would even be interested in participating in them.
6.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The last component of this study, a survey of various projects worldwide, was one of the most rewarding.
These projects, of varying sizes and conducted over many years, have a number of points in common.
First, they are all concerned with older adults aged over 55 years. Second, their purpose is to find ways to apply technology to improve the lives of older adults, keep them independent and lighten their day-to-day load.
About 20 Canadian, American and European projects to explore the interaction of technology with various groups of older adults were surveyed but the most significant ones are discussed.
6.1.
Canadian projects
6.1.1.
Creative Retirement Manitoba/Canadian Healthcare Telematics
Description
The purpose of this project is to develop, test and evaluate an electronic network giving access to an on-line database and conferencing system specifically adapted to the needs of older consumers wishing to maintain an independent lifestyle.
Objectives
Develop a sound understanding of older adults' requirements, such as     the nature of desired information and preferred format, when using     on-line information systems;
determine the relevance of telematics as a solution to problems     experienced by older adults in obtaining information they need to live     autonomous lives after retirement.
6.1.2.
Applications of Building Automation for Elderly and Disabled          Persons (Hickling Report)
Description
This is a preliminary market study, commissioned by the Canadian Automated Buildings Association (CABA), to identify potential home automation applications most likely to help older adults and persons with disabilities.
This study assessed opportunities for Canadian firms to participate in developing and marketing technologies to meet the needs of these clienteles.
CABA wishes to develop a strategy to close the gap between consumers and suppliers.
Implementation
A review of consumer needs and related technological responses,     through analysis of databases and literature;
focus group sessions with elderly and disabled consumers;
a survey of North American suppliers of automated building technology.
6.1.3.
Info-3e âge project (Quebec)
Description
This is a pilot project for an Info 3e âge Centre to provide information and referral services, based primarily on volunteer telephone assistance to older adults in specific geographic locations.
The Centre will house all relevant documentation and (in certain cases) provide appropriate help and advice.
The information should eventually be adapted for use in an electronic format.
Implementation
Adaptation of information and references to the diversity of older     adult populations and to the specific characteristics of affected     localities;
collection of primarily local and regional documentation of interest     to seniors;
dissemination of information;
management by older adults, supported by local groups.
6.1.4.
Silver & Gold (Ontario)
Description
This is an electronic network for communication between older adults.
Objectives
Set up a means for rapid, efficient and affordable communication to     reduce seniors' isolation and put them in touch with others who share     their interests;
encourage intellectual activity to counteract memory loss, dementia     and depression;
provide seniors with an opportunity to share their knowledge and     experience;
provide community and government agencies with a medium for     disseminating information that may affect older adults.
6.1.5.
Seniors Resources and Research Society (Infonet)
Description
This is an electronic communication and information network developed by and for older adults and any other interested individuals.
The project includes development and evaluation components.
This project is directed by Infonet, which establishes and manages computer learning centres for older adults in the United States and co-ordinates a network for electronic communication between its members.
This Canada-wide electronic communication network, which links various organizations, provides access to an on-line database and several other services adapted to the needs of older consumers wishing to lead an autonomous lifestyle.
The network includes various components, such as:  news, electronic mail, library, forum, database and bulletin board.
Objectives
Give British Columbia seniors ready access to all information useful     and interesting to them;
revise and update this information;
provide Infonet users with a simple, affordable communications     network.
6.1.6.
Project PAIR (Quebec)
Description
This is a computerized system for regularly monitoring the status of individuals living at home.
The system is made up of a computer, a loudspeaker, a telephone and a printer, and includes a database containing information on individuals registered in the program.
When the system is activated, registered seniors are telephoned one by one with a computer-generated voice message.
If there is no answer after a predetermined number of calls (usually two), an alarm sounds.
The system prints out a complete report on the individual in difficulty, based on the calling history.
A daily report is generally printed out as well.
Objectives
Meet a need for safety, while allowing older adults to maintain their     independence;
encourage individuals who wish to remain independent to take     responsibility for themselves, provided that someone looks in on them;
alleviate certain seniors' feelings of solitude or isolation;
make older adults aware of the reality of getting older, which is often     suppressed (illnesses, fears, etc.) while reassuring them with a     service such as this;
save lives by anticipating the worst.
6.2.
Project in the United States
6.2.1.
SeniorNet
Description
This is a non-profit organization to establish and manage computer learning centres for older adults in the United States. It also co-ordinates a network for electronic communication between its members.
Objectives
Determine if computers and telecommunications can enrich the lives of     older Americans;
provide a secure, friendly environment for learning about computers;
bring older adults together in a single communications network;
provide useful, relevant information to seniors over an on-line     system.
6.3.
Projects in Europe
In Europe, the principal projects are being conducted within major European research programs, either general programs (such as RACE) or specific ones (such as TIDE).
Scandinavian countries (such as Norway and Sweden) with a well established tradition of research and development in the area of social applications of technology are also quite interested in the impact of technology on older adults.
6.3.1.
RACE (Research and Advanced Development on Communications          Technology in Europe)
Description
Three major projects are being conducted under this Council of European Communities program:
APPSN :  Application Pilot for People with Special Needs;
IPSNI :  Integration of People with Special Needs in IBC;
TUDOR :  Tutorials about Users who Disabled are Retired.
Industry, universities and user groups are co-operating on these projects.
Objectives
APPSN :  Demonstrate the commercial potential of home support and care          services using video telephones.
IPSNI :  Develop specifications for multimedia communications networks          for persons with motor, vision and speech disabilities, to          facilitate their professional and social integration, improve          their cultural access and foster their independence.
TUDOR :  Evaluate the potential of broadband communications networks with          respect to the integration of seniors and persons with          disabilities in society and the improvement of their quality of          life.
A sample of 6,000 persons has been consulted.
6.3.2.
TIDE:  Technology Initiative for Disabled and Elderly People
Description
This European Community project includes 21 projects designed to develop models and tools for manipulation and control, personal communication, safety and day-to-day support and access to information for people with special needs (Ballabio, 1992).
Objectives
Explore needs in adapted technology;
make new technologies accessible to everyone, without discrimination     as to disability;
meet the everyday needs of persons with disabilities, compensating for     certain impairments with new technologies.
6.3.3.
Home Shopping Systems
Description
This Swedish research project equips seniors with computers, faxes and adapted telephones to study various characteristics of home shopping systems.
Objectives
Describe these systems from the point of view of older consumers;
specify procedures for implementing such systems in seniors' homes;
assess the positive and negative aspects of various modes for     communicating between consumers (seniors) and service dispensers (the     commercial sector).
6.3.4.
Elderly and Self-Service Technology
Description
This Norwegian pilot project includes two parts:
First part:
a review of the literature on older adults and their use of modern     technology;
a survey of other projects concerned with this subject;
observations of older adults and interviews in banks, automated     self-service outlets, etc.;
discussion groups and distribution of a questionnaire to randomly     selected older adults.
Second part:
installation of various technological equipment in two day centres for     older adults.
Objectives
Elucidate older adults' attitudes toward self-service communications     technology;
identify the conditions and user aspects that are relevant if older     adults are to make use of such technology.
6.4.
Reactions
Managers of most of the projects described showed considerable interest and willingness to co-operate, not only in providing information on their work but also with a view toward possible participation in projects to follow the present study.
This interest is exemplified by the following remarks:
"Your project looks very interesting!
I am looking forward to     hearing more about your work, as I am convinced there is an     enormous challenge along these lines." Sidsel Bjorneby, Human Factors Solutions, Oslo, Norway.
"We are very interested in expanding our involvement in the area     of seniors and communications technology and would welcome     co-ordination with you as your plans become more definite."
Elliott Stein, Stein Gerontological Institute - Technology               Centre for Independent Living, Miami, U.S.A.
"It's wonderful that you have embarked upon this much-needed     study!"
Isobel Warren, Silver & Gold, Toronto, Ontario.
"1993 Elderhostel would be extremely interested in working with     you on the concept of using new technologies with seniors."
Robert Williston, Elderhostel, Kingston, Ontario.
7.
SURVEY OF ASSOCIATIONS AND GROUPS OF OLDER ADULTS
A major portion of the data was collected through direct contact with organizations of older adults and professionals working with this age group.
To do this, a letter briefly describing the project, accompanied by an eight-point questionnaire, was sent to selected groups and individuals in Canada and abroad.
7.1.
Goals and objectives
The purpose of this survey was to solicit information from groups representing older adults, to help senior networks and relevant professionals better understand gerontechnology issues in Canada.
7.2.
Methodology
The questionnaire was mailed to the following groups:
organizations of older adults (Canadian members or partners of     One Voice);
non-profit organizations;
provincial government departments and advisory boards with     responsibility for the status of older adults;
members of the One Voice board of directors.
A number of groups and professionals involved in research into technology, gerontology and other fields were also mailed or faxed the questionnaire, with a letter requesting additional information.
Several contacts were made by telephone.
Respondents were selected according to the following criteria:
A)
Representativeness of older adults and professionals
To ensure that the sample was representative of older adults and professionals, experts on questions related to aging, non-profit organizations representing older adults and members of the One Voice board of directors were selected to participate.
B)
Representativeness of provinces and territories
Representation by provinces and territories was guaranteed by sending the letter to departmental agencies responsible for the status of older adults in each province and territory.
C)
Diversity of the clientele
Diversity of the clientele was guaranteed through contact with member groups of The Canadian Seniors Network, as well as with other non-profit organizations working in various areas. Some examples are:
the Canadian Association for Adult Education;
the Canadian Association for Independent Living Centres;
the Confédération des organismes provinciaux pour les personnes     handicappées (Quebec).
Research groups such as the following were also consulted:
gerontology centres and programs at universities;
business firms conducting technological research;
groups and individuals working with rehabilitation technologies.
D)
International participation
International participation was guaranteed through contacts with professionals with an interest in gerontological issues in ten different countries.
7.3.
Results
The overall response rate was 23.1%;
the rate of response to the questionnaire was 11.1%.
What follows is an analytic compilation of the questionnaire responses.
QUESTION 1:
In your opinion, what specific needs and services would new multimedia technologies help provide for?
While several respondents claimed to know little about the new communications technologies, most respondents appeared to have no trouble identifying needs and services.
According to 65% of respondents, one of older adults' principal needs is access to accurate, up-to-date information.
" The level of autonomy of an aging individual can be increased by giving him or her fast, easy access to essential information."
Many respondents also pointed out the huge potential of communications technologies for individuals living alone or in remote areas.
In addition, 52% of respondents indicated that the technology could increase social interaction and reduce isolation, while 30% stressed its importance for guaranteeing older adults' safety. Finally 26% mentioned health and autonomy as issues of concern for older adults.
Other points brought up included communication or language problems (26%) and mobility and transportation problems (17%).
QUESTION 2:
What form(s) would/could these new technologies take?
The wide variety of responses to this question depended primarily on the degree to which the respondent was familiar with the new technologies.
While several respondents listed simple, familiar technologies like the telephone, television or VCR, many of them identified more recent and complex technologies.
The technologies most frequently mentioned were the computer and computerized systems (43%) followed by self-service type systems and security or emergency response systems (30%).
Five respondents mentioned interactive television, adaptive telephones and VCRs.
Importantly, the results of these first two questions are related.
The computer and self-service systems provide access to information and communications, while security and emergency response systems are used to protect individuals living alone or in remote regions.
QUESTION 3:
What do you think would be possible barriers to bringing seniors and communication technologies together?
How might these barriers be reduced or eliminated?
Financial and psychological obstacles were mentioned most often.
In all, 57% of the respondents claimed that cost could be a major hurdle.
As one respondent put it, "Older persons on fixed income do not always have sufficient resources to secure the equipment, servicing and support required."
As to psychological obstacles, 43% of the respondents mentioned feelings of fear or intimidation in dealing with new technologies; in addition, 26% believed that older adults may be resistant to change because of their habits or cultural upbringing.
QUESTION 4:
What do you think would be enabling factors to bringing seniors and communications technologies together?
In all, 86% of the respondents felt that awareness on the part of older adults and the general public was very important;
39% mentioned the importance of training and support to seniors in the learning process; and 35% cite promotion of the technology and education of the public by the media.
The format of a course for seniors offered by adult education institutions or community centres is preferred by 22% of the respondents, while 17% preferred to be instructed by their peers.
Other proposed solutions were subsidies and programs to reduce the cost of implementing the technology (30%) and the development of more suitable, user-friendly technology (17%).
Only 8% of the respondents mentioned that public and private sector managers (who are responsible for developing, producing and distributing the technology) also needed to be better informed of older adults' situation and needs.
QUESTION 5:
Are you aware of any previous similar or related studies, by your organization or by other organizations in Canada and abroad?
and
QUESTION 6:
Do you know individuals or organizations that could help us in our research?
Both of these questions obtained a response rate of 73%.
The information obtained from them was reviewed and the appropriate individuals or groups were contacted.
QUESTION 7:
What are your feelings and comments/ideas for this project?
Most of the reactions expressed were enthusiastic.
Many respondents who work either with older adults or with technology recognized that such issues needed to be addressed, and felt that strategies should be developed to encourage older Canadians to participate fully in modern society by efficiently using its tools.
They recommended that this project continue over several years and consider a number of factors such as the cost, design and marketing (promotion, education, etc.) of technological devices.
Here are some sample comments:
"Communication will be essential to keep older adults in the     mainstream of society.
Strategies need to be developed so that     the technology developed will be appropriate and adaptable to     an aging population."
"Technology has an enormous potential to make life easier for     seniors.
However, seniors need to know what kind of technology     is out there to help them.
They also need to feel comfortable     using it."
"People still have many misconceptions about aging and one of     those is you can't teach an old dog new tricks!
Seniors need to     know that they are as capable of learning how to use new     technology as younger people."
"Anything that can promote the wider use, by seniors, of the     rapidly proliferating, increasingly sophisticated, labour     emancipating, ever more user-friendly instruments of modern     technology, will have the potential for social and economic     benefits that could improve the quality of life for all     Canadians."
"Technology for senior citizens is no longer an abstraction.
The push-pull effect of new commercially available technologies     is leading inexorably in that direction. Furthermore, we must     see the train coming and act immediately if we don't want to miss     it."
"Important to recognize technology as a tool rather than a     crutch.
Hi-tech without integration to existing services for     seniors will not solve communication/access problems."
"Through efficient use of new technology, the government can     save money in the medium term while improving older adults'     quality of life, sense of well-being and social involvement."
"We think that getting older people interested in multimedia is     a wonderful idea!"
QUESTION 8:
Do you believe that you can make a particular contribution to this project?
If so, how?
Responses to this final question fall into three categories:
individuals and groups who could act as intermediaries between the     older adults they serve and the project co-ordinators;
individuals and groups who could provide expertise;
individuals and groups who volunteered to participate in a pilot     project.
Co-ordinators of any future project or projects will assess these possibilities for co-operation, and will determine human resource needs at that time.
Summary
The questionnaire responses indicate that older adults use CITs -- primarily computers, self-service or security and emergency response systems -- to satisfy information and psychosocial needs.

Companies that develop and implement them should take account of equipment cost; psychological barriers; user training; promotion to the public; and possibilities for subsidies and programs designed to reduce cost to the consumer.
It appears that a lack of contact and interaction with technological devices, rather than prejudice, is responsible for many seniors' resistance to new technology.
The respondents, some of whom are unfamiliar with CITs, did not seem to have difficulty identifying needs that new technologies could satisfy, services that they could provide and possible hurdles to their adoption.
Many seniors are intimidated or even frightened by these modern communications technologies; training and promotion would be the most effective ways to overcome these feelings of discomfort in the face of the unknown.
In general, respondents were enthusiastic about CITs as long as they could understand why they were useful.
The technology will be more effective, and more widely accepted, if the needs and interests of both young and old users are identified.
The respondents did not appear to be afraid that the technology will hinder personal relationships, believing instead that it will enrich the social lives of older adults.
The high response rate indicates that interest in this question is widespread.
The findings agree with those from more comprehensive studies that most older adults are not put off by new technologies but are willing to learn to use any technology that is truly useful and for which suitable training and equipment are provided.
8.
CONCLUSION
8.1.
Older adults and technology
Older Canadians are no longer a homogeneous group; in addition, today's seniors do not have much in common, from the point of view of life experiences, with the generations that preceded them.
In the last ten years or so, recent retirees in particular have become the pioneers of modern aging, experimenting with new social trends such as early retirement; encouragement of home care by families of seniors who are losing their independence; the growth of seniors' rights groups; and special rates for people aged 55 years and over.
The most recent wave of older adults has had to adapt to all kinds of major technological changes in the last quarter of the 20th century.
Such innovations as radio, the telephone, sophisticated household appliances, television, video cassette recorders, and medical and biomedical technology have found their way into seniors' lives, whether they wanted them or not.
Older adults have not adapted nearly so well, however, to newer communications and information technologies (such as computers, modems and electronic games) that still seem too closely associated with people under 40 and are developed to serve this market.
Most research findings, as well as comments from private sector representatives, indicate that the CIT industry does not consider older adults as a target clientele; that the profile of this clientele is misunderstood by those with an interest in issues of gerontechnology; and that, too often, these professionals are still relying on obsolete data (information and statistics from previous generations).
Most of these products, therefore, are developed based on obsolete assumptions.
Older adults have a great deal of difficulty identifying their needs or interests with respect to technology or evaluating equipment or services, given that they are not very familiar with the phenomenon.
They have trouble conceiving of what is described to them, given the highly technical nature of this field.
This, in fact, was one of the main problems encountered by most  researchers.
Since opportunities for interaction between older adults and technology will probably become more numerous as the population ages and CITs become more advanced, it is time that the major actors prepare themselves for this phenomenon.
In Canada, as in all industrialized countries, the new wave of older adults will have increasing contact with CITs.
More Canadians than believed, aged 55 years and over, have now, and will continue to have, the characteristics cited by research studies as necessary for use of CITs, that is, suitable education, a desire to remain physically, intellectually and socially active, financial means and some familiarity with the technology.
8.1.1.
Things are certain to improve
As the children of the postwar generation begin to reach 55, an older Canadian population will become an unprecedented reality.
As people come to live ever longer lives, there will be more and more Canadians aged 80 years and older, both in proportion and in sheer number. In addition, if current trends continue, they will probably remain independent longer.
Most studies find that older adults in general, and women especially, are reaching retirement age with more skills and better prepared to look out for their own interests.
This situation is reflected in:
unprecedented educational achievement, generally superior to that of     preceding generations;
for a larger proportion of seniors, a healthier financial situation     compared with their predecessors;
growing interest in continuing education.
8.2.
What are seniors' attitudes toward technology?
Not surprisingly, given their constantly changing profile, older adults' attitudes toward technology are ambiguous.
Seniors do modify these attitudes, however, if the technology works for them and is consistent with issues of interest to them, such as:
improvement in the quality of life (self-esteem, satisfaction);
socialization (meetings, communications, working in groups,     emotional support);
feelings of safety.
Furthermore, older adults are very open to telecommunication systems that they can use from home:
health information services;
teleshopping;
banking services.
They are, however, reluctant to adopt products that may make them look older or marginalize them.
Researchers have found that many more of tomorrow's older adults will make use of technology in general and CITs in particular.
These same sources claim that today's older users show a great deal of patience and perseverence when learning a technology, especially since they desire intellectual stimulation.
Their motivation depends, however, on the user-friendliness of the technology.
8.3.
What can the CIT industry do for seniors?
The industry must take the following into consideration:
product concept, design and price;
consultation with older adults throughout the process of developing     an application, from design to evaluation (in an iterative process if     possible);
the usefulness of technological innovations intended for older adults     and the conditions under which they can be used;
older users' awareness and training, depending on their cognitive     abilities;
the importance of demonstrating the potential of applications in     seniors' daily lives, taking account of their abilities and     motivation;
full-time access to a help line;
but also the possibility that technology may replace social contact     and lead to isolation.
A number of studies have found that older subjects' attitudes toward new technologies tend to become more negative with age.
All studies show, however, that age is not a significant factor and that prejudices and stereotypes with respect to older adults are among the first hurdles to overcome.
Relatively little research has been done on this subject, in Canada or elsewhere.
The age of technology has ignored at least 20% of the population, thus underestimating the potential and abilities of people who have the time to learn and the desire to discover all possible ways in which these technologies can improve the quality of their lives and enhance their daily activities.
9.
RECOMMENDATIONS
The information gathered for this study indicates that it would be appropriate to:
develop a strategy for diffusing this study to all research partners     and collaborators, to the research community and to anyone else     interested in Canada and internationally;
establish an ongoing process, using both Canadian and international     resources, for updating the research;
develop a research project to examine issues related to CITs and older     adults who are handicapped in one or more ways;
establish an advisory board composed of Canadian experts in     gerontechnology, including the main stakeholders;
encourage co-operation with the government departments, private firms     and associations of older adults;
identify technological applications capable of better meeting the     information and communications needs of individual seniors and groups     of older adults, within the framework of existing projects;
develop a guide containing (among other things) advice, standards and     factors to consider on these issues, to be made available to the     research and development programs and sales and marketing departments     of CIT firms;
develop gerontechnology along the following dimensions:
. older adults' human factors and general characteristics;          technology needs; attitudes; cognitive skills; ability to use          these tools; and motivation;
. consultation with older adults at all stages of developing a          technology;
. awareness and training;
. promotion of older adults' quality of life, autonomy, ability to                   live at home and socialization.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
ALLEN, P.A., MADDEN, D.J., GROTH, K.E. and CROZIER, L.C.  (1992), "Impact of   Age, Redundancy, and Perceptual Noise on Visual Search", Journal of                                                                                Gerontology:  PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCES, Vol. 47, No. 2, p. 69-74.
ALPINER, Jerome G., and VAUGHN, Gwenyth R.  (1988), "Hearing, Aging,           Technology",                                                                                International                                                                                Journal of                                                                                Technology                                                                                and                                                                                Aging,                                                                                Vol. 1,                                                                                No. 2,                                                                                p. 126-132.
ANSLEY, Jane and ERBER, Joan T.  (1988), "Computer Interaction Effect on Attitudes     and Performance in Older Adults", Educational Gerontology,               Vol. 14, p. 107-119.
BALLABIO, Egidio. (1992), "Assistive Technology", XIII Magazine, 2, p. B-7.
BATT, Richard C. and LOUNSBURY, Peggy A.  (1990), "Teaching the Patient With   Cognitive Deficits to Use a Computer", American Journal of Technology,                                                                                Vol. 44, No. 4, p. 364 (incomplete).
BEAM, Dorothy E.  (1986), "L'âge d'or et la surdité", Les conférences publiques du  sommet québécois sur la déficience auditive, p. 310-321.
BIAGE-MAJOR, Huguette. La Domotique, p. 6-8.
BJORNEBY, Sidsel, COLLINS, Sylvie, NORDBY, Knut, PEREIRA, Leonor Moniz and     PURIFICAçAO, Joao. (1991), "Attitudes and Acceptance",                                                                                Gerontechnology:  1st Conference on Technology and Aging, 9 p.
BLAICH, Robert. Taming Technology for the Benefit of the Aging - and Everyone Else.
BOUCHARD RYAN, Ellen. (1985), Memory for Gobling:  a Computer Game for        Assessing and Training Working Memory Skill.
BOUCHARD RYAN, Ellen and HEAVEN, Roberta K.B.  (1986), "Promoting Vitality     Among Older Adults with Computers", Activities, Adaptation, and                                                                                Aging, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 15-30.
BOUCHARD RYAN, Ellen and KWONG SEE, Sheree. (1990), Acceptance of Computer    Technology by Older Adults, 18 p.
BOUCHARD RYAN, Ellen, SZECHTMAN, Barbara and BODKIN, Jay. (1992),             "Attitudes                                                                                Toward                                                                                Younger and                                                                                Older                                                                                Adults                                                                                Learning to                                                                                Use                                                                                Computers", Journal of Gerontology: PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE, Vol. 47, No. 2, p. 96-101.
BOUWHUIS, Don. (1991), "Aging, Perceptual and Cognitive Functioning and Interactive   Equipment", Gerontechnology:  1st International Conference               on Technology and Aging, p. 94-112.
BOWE, Frank. (1988), "Why Seniors Don't Use Technology", Technology Review,   Vol. 91, No. 6, p. 34.
BOWE, Frank G.  (1990), National Survey on Telephone Services and Products:  the      Views of Disabled and Older Americans, 35 p.
BRETON, Philippe. (1993), "Informatique et utopie", Le Monde diplomatique, p. 32.
BROOKS LEVY, Sydelle and GORDON, Arlene R.  (1988), "Age-Related Vision Loss:      Functional Implications and Assistive Technologies", International     Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 1, No. 2, p. 116-125.
BURKE, Mary Ann. (1991), "Conséquence du vieillissement démographique", Tendances     sociales canadiennes, p. 6-8.
CCNTA. (1992), "Technologies that Promote Independence", Seniors Info Exchange, 2 p.
CHAPPELL, L. Neena. The Perceived Helpfulness of New Technology Among a       Population of Seniors, unpublished, 30 p.
CHARNESS, N. and BOSMAN, E.A.  (1990), "Human Factors and Design for Older     Adults", Handbook of the Psychology of Aging, Third Edition, Academic                                                                                Press, New York, p. 446-463.
CHARNESS, N. and BOSMAN, E.A., SCHUMANN et GAYLA M. Boritz. (1992),           "Training                                                                                Older                                                                                Adults in                                                                                Word                                                                                Processing:                                                                                Effets of                                                                                Age,                                                                                Training                                                                                Technique,                                                                                and                                                                                Computer                                                                                Anxiety",                                                                                International                                                                                Journal of                                                                                Technology                                                                                and                                                                                Aging,                                                                                Vol. 5,                                                                                No. 1,                                                                                p. 79-106.
CHARNESS, Neil and BOSMAN, élizabeth A.  Human Factors and Age, monographie.
CHAWLA, Raj. (1991), "Une société vieillissante, un autre point de vue", Tendances     sociales canadiennes, Vol. 11-008, No. 20, p. 2-5.
CHIN, Kathy. (1985), "The Elderly Learn the Computer", Aging, 348, p. 4.
CISLER, Steve. (1993), Hawaï Network Conference Report.
COLLINS, S.C., BHATTI, J.Z., DEXTER, S.L. and RABBIT, P.M.A.  Elderly People in  a New World Attitudes to Advanced Communications Technologies,     incomplete data, p. 277-282.
COLLINS, Sylvie, PEREIRE, Lenonor Moniz, PERSSON, Camilla, PURIFICAçAO, Joao     and ASTBRINK, Gunela. (1991), "Telecommunications Needs as Expressed     by Elderly People and People with Disabilities", Gerontechnology:  1st     International Conference on Technology and Aging, 11 p.
COOMBS, F. THOMPSON, B., MARTINO-SALTZMAN, D. and BLASCH, B.    "Technology                                                                 for the                                                                 Wandering                                                                 Patient",                                                                 SOMA,                                                                 engineering                                                                 for the                                                                 Human Body,                                                                 p. 53-59.
CULLEN, K. and MORAN, R.  (1992), "Role of Technology in Prolonging the        Independence of the Elderly in the Community Care Context", Technology                                                                                and the Elderly, p. 37-125.
CZAJA, Sara J.  (1988), "Safety and Security of the Elderly:  Implications for Smart    House Design", International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 1,          No. 1, p. 49-66.
CZAJA, Sara J., GUERRIER, José H. and LANDAUER, Thomas K.  (1993), "Computer   Communication as an Aid to Independence for Older Adults", Behavior                                                                                and Information Technology, 37 p.
CZAJA, Sarah J. and BARR, Robin A.  (1989), "Technology and the Everyday Life of  Older Adults", Annals of the American of Political and Socials,     Vol. 505, No. 5, p. 127-137.
CZAJA, Sarah J., HAMMOND, Katka, BLASCOVICH, James J. and SWEDE, Helen. (1989), "Age related Differences in Learning to Use a Text-editing                                                                                System", Behaviour and Information Technology, Vol. 8, No. 4, p.                                                                                309-319.
DIAZ, Michel. L'Explosion des technologies multimédias, MUL, 2, p. D-1.
DUSTMAN, Robert E., EMMERSON, Rita Y., STEINHAUS, Laurel A., SHEARER,          Donald E. and DUSTMAN, Theodore J.  (1992), "The Effects of Videogame                                                                                Playing on Neuropsychological Performance of Elderly Individuals",                                                                                Journal of Gerontology:  PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCES, Vol. 47, No. 3, p. 168-171.
EILERS, Merry Lee. (1989), "Older Adults and Computer Education:  Not to Have the      World a Closed Door", International Journal of Technology and Aging,          Vol. 2, No. 1, p. 56-75.
ELMER-DEWITT, Philippe. (1993), "Electronics Super Highway", Time, p. 49-53.
EMILIANI, Pier Luigi.  " Some European Projects on Technology and People with   Disabilities", Some European Research Projects p. 137-143.
ENGELHARDT, K.G.  (1989), "Health and Human Service Robotics:  Multi-dimensional  Perspectives", International Journal of Technology                    and Aging, Vol. 2, No. 1, p. 8-39, incomplete.
ERKERT, T.  Elderly Persons and Communications.
FESTERVAND, Troy A. and WYLDE, Margaret A.  (1988), "The Marketing of          Technology to Older Adults", International Journal of Technology and                                                                                Aging, Vol. 1, No. 2, p. 156-162.
FLETCHER, William. (1986), Recording your Family History, 308 p.
FRANK, Elaine and WARBUTON, Karen. (1989), "Evaluation of a Family-Resident   Videotape Program (V-TV)", International Journal of Technology and                                                                                Aging, Vol. 2, No. 2, p. 144-151.
FURLONG, M.S.  (1989), "Crafting an Electronic Community:  the SeniorNet Story",  Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 2, No. 2, p. 125-134.
FURLONG, Mary and KEARSLEY, Greg. (1990), "Computer for Kids over 60 Opening  New Windows on the World", SeniorNet, 127 p.
FURLONG, Mary S.  (1989), "An Electronic Community for Older Adults:  The      SeniorNet Network", Journal of Communication, Vol. 39, No. 3,                                                                                p. 145-153.
GARBE, D., STÖCKLER, F. and WALD, R.  The State of The Art:  Telecommunication      and the Elderly. p. 283-292.
GAUTHIER, Pierre. (1991), "Les Aînés au Canada", Tendance sociales canadiennes,  p. 16-20.
GILLY, Mary C. and ZEITHAML, Valarie A.  (1985), "The Elderly Consumer and     Adoption of Technologies", Journal of Consumer Research, Vol. 12,                                                                                p. 353-357.
GIRARDIN, Pierre. (1991), "La Domotique au Québec, technologie de l'avenir au service    du handicap, du mieux être et de l'environnement", Actualité               immobilière, Vol. 15, No. 2, p. 18-25.
GRANT, Nancy C. and WALSH, Birrell. (1990), "Interpreted Captioning:  Facilitating  Interactive Discussion Among Hearing Impaired Adults",               International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 3,               No. 2, p. 133-144.
GREENBERGER, Martin and PUFFER, James C.  (1989), "Facilitating Health         Communication for the Older Person", International Journal of                                                                                Technology and Aging, Vol. 2, No. 2, p. 153-170.
GRIFFITH, D.  (1990), "Computer Acces for Persons Who Are Blinds or Visually   Impaired:  Human Factors Issues", Journal Human Factors, Vol. 32,                                                                                No. 4, p. 467-75.
HABER, A.L.  (1988), "Technology, Environments, and the Process of Aging",     International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 5-8.
HAHM, W. and BIKSON, T.  (1989), "Retirees Using EMail and Networked Computers",   International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 2,               No. 2, p. 113-123.
HARKINS, Judith E.  (1990), "To The Moon and Back:  Digital Technology and Hearing  Impaired Adults", International Journal of Technology and Aging,          Vol. 3, No. 2, p. 111-120.
HARRIS, Helen. (1988), "Mature Market Overview:  Marketing the Smart House",  International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 67-84.
HIATT, Lorraine G.  (1988), Smart Houses for Older People:  General Considerations,    Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 11-30.
HOLMES, Douglas, HOLMES, Monica and TERESI, Jeanne. (1988), "Routine          Collection of Medication Side Effect Data Using Computer Terminals                                                                                Located in a Senior Center", The Gerontological Society of America,                                                                                Vol. 28, No. 1, p. 105-107.
HORSTMANN, Heidi M., LEVIN, Simon P. and JAROS, Lincoln A.  (1989), "Keyboard  Emulation for Access to IBM-PC-Compatible Computers by People with                                                                                Motor Impairement", Assistive Technologies, 1, p. 63-70 (p. 63 only                                                                                incomplete).
HOWE, Marylin and GRAHAM, Bill. (1990), "The Importance of Captioning for     Late-deafened Adults", International Journal of Technology and Aging,                                                                                Vol. 3, No. 2, p. 121-131.
INFANTE-RIVARD, Claire, KRIEGER, Monique, PETITCLERC, Marcelle and             BAUMGARTEN,                                                                                Mona. (1988), "A                                                                                Telephone                                                                                Support                                                                                Service to                                                                                Reduce                                                                                Medical                                                                                Care                                                                                Use                                                                                Among                                                                                the                                                                                Elderly",                                                                                Journal of                                                                                the                                                                                American                                                                                Geriatrics                                                                                Society                                                                                (JAGS),                                                                                Vol. 36,                                                                                p. 306-311.
JAY, Gina M. and WILLIS, Sherry L.  (1992), "Influence of Direct Computer Experience    on Older Adults' Attitudes Toward Computers", Journal of               Gerontology:  Psychological Science, Vol. 47, No. 4, p.               250-257.
KANE, Robert L.  Technology and the New Environment for the Elderly, incomplete data.
KAUTZMANN, Lisette. (1990), "Introducing Computers to the Elderly", Physical &    Occupational Therapy in Geriatrics, Vol. 9, No. 1, p. 27 (summary               of the article only).
LA BUDA, Dennis R.  (1988), "Education, Leisure, and Older Persons:  Implications for   Smart House Design", International Journal of                    Technology and Aging, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 31-48.
LAMEY, Mary. (1992), "High-Tech Goes Underground", The Gazette, p. F8-F9.
MADDEN, David J.  (1992), "Four to Ten Milliseconds Per Year:  Age-Related Slowing  of Visual Word Identification", Journal of Gerontology:          PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE, Vol. 47, No. 2, p. 59-68.
MARGOLIN, Richard A.  (1990), "Computerized Brain-imaged, Devices, Aging, and      Mental Health", International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 3,          No. 1, p. 7-17.
MCNEELY, Elizabeth. (1991), "Computer-Assisted Instruction and the Older-Adult   Learner", Educational Gerontology, Vol. 17, p. 229-237.
MERRILL, Frank H.  (1992), "Automating the Information and Referral Function at a     Regional Senior Citizen's Center", Journal of Systems Management,          Vol. 43, No. 10, p. 6 (4).
MONK, Abraham. (1988), "Marvels? Conondrums? Both? Technology, like the Genie    in the Bottle, Is Best Approach Hopefully and Warily", Technology and          Aging Feature Section, p. 4.
MOODY, Harry R.  (1986), "Late Life Learning in the Information Society", Education     and Aging, p. 122-148.
NIELSEN, Jakob and SCHAEFER, Lyon. (1993), "Sound Effects as an Interface Element  for Older Users", Behaviour and Information technology,          p. 208-215.
O'CONNOR, Rory. (1992), "Apples's Tree Growing Into 21st Century", The Ottawa   Citizen, p. E 5.
O'LEARY, Stephanie, MANN, Charlotte and PERKASH, Inder. (1991), "Access to    Computers for Older Adults:  Problems and Solutions", American Journal                                                                                of Technology, Vol. 45, No. 7, p. 636.
ÖSTLUND, Britt. (1992), Do Komtex Replace the Home Help Service?
ÖSTLUND, Britt. (1993), Information Technology in Elderly Peoples Housing.
ÖSTLUND, Britt. (1991), Why the Safety Alarm Become a Success.
PARKER, M.G. and THORSLUND, M.  (1991), "The Use of Technical Aids Among       Community-based Elderly", American Journal of Occupational Therapy,                                                                                Vol. 45, No. 8, summary.
PEHRINGER, James. (1989), "Assistive Devices:  Technology to Improve          Communication", Otorynologic Clinic of North America, Vol. 22, No. 1,                                                                                p. 143-174.
PRUD'HOMME, Arlette. (1986), "Entre le domicile et le centre d'accueil", Les  conférences publiques du sommet québécois sur la déficience auditive,                                                                                p. 290-309.
RECIO, Irene. (1990), "The Passeword is Geezer:  Golden Agers log on", Business Week, Vol. 3177, p. 74.
REUTER. (1992), "Not Feeling Well? Is There a Senior in the House?" , The Toronto  Star, Business Today, 1 p.
ROBINSON, S.  (1991), "Support for Elderly People Using Videotelephony:  the   Frankfurt Pilot", Gerontechnology:  1st International Conference on                                                                                Technology and Aging, p. 305-316.
ROIZEN, MF. , COALSON, D., HAYWARD, RS. , SCHMITTNER, J., THISTED, RA. ,          APFELBAUM, JL. , STOCKING, CB. , CASSEL, CK. , POMPEI, P., FORD, DE. et                                                                                al.  (1992), "Can Patients Use an Automated Questionnaire to Define                                                                                Their Current Health Status?" , Journal:  Medical Care, Vol. 30, No. 5                                                                                (suppl.).
ROTT, Ch.  (1988), "Einstellungsmuster Älterer Menschen zu Technischen         Innovationnen", Zeitschrift fr Gerontologie, No. 21, p. 225-231.
RUDICK, Roger J.  (1992), "Seniors are Fastest Growing Group of New Computers  Users", Computer Shopper, Vol. 12, No. 8, p. 152.
RUDINGER, G., ESPEY, J., NEUF, H. and SIMON, U.  (1991), "Technology and Aging:   Using Tickets Machine", Gerontechnology:  1st International          Conference on Technology and Aging, p. 349-353.
STEIN, Elliott S.  (1990), "Applications of Consumer Electronics and Other Gadget to the      Mental Health and Well-Being of the Elderly", International                    Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 3, No. 1, p. 63-68.
STEVENS, Joseph C.  (1992), "Aging and Spatial Acuity of Touch", Journal of    Gerontology:  Psychological Sciences, Vol. 47, No. 1, p. 35-40.
STEWART, Tom. (1991), "Physical Interfaces" or "Obviously It's for the Elderly, It's      Grey, Boring and Dull", Gerontechnology:  1st International                    Conference on Technology and Aging, p. 197-207.
STRAKA, Gerald A.  (1986), "Television and The ElderlyFrom Broadcasting to     Narrowcasting", Education and Aging, p. 93-120.
STRUYK, Raymond J.  (1988), "Current and Emerging Issues in Housing Environments  for the Elderly", The Social and Built Environment in an               Older Society, p. 134-143 (incomplete).
STUNKEL, Edith L.  (1991), "The Technological Fix:  Tapping Media's Diverse    Components for Gerontological Education", Gerontology and Geriatrics                                                                                Education, Vol. 11, No. 4, p. 1-15 (missing pages).
THE ASSISTIVE DEVICES RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT GROUP. (1992),    "Assistive                                                                 Devices                                                                 Research                                                                 and                                                                 Development                                                                 Project",                                                                 The                                                                 Assistive                                                                 Devices                                                                 Research                                                                 and                                                                 Development                                                                 Working                                                                 Group, 8 p.,                                                                 Appendix 16                                                                 p.
TRENCHER, Ellen. (1988), "A Sensory Technology Information Service (S.T.I.S)",   International Journal of Technology and Aging, Vol. 1,               No. 2, p. 163-165.
TRICKEY, Francine. (1993), Les systèmes de surveillance et aide en cas d'urgence, Une     technologie simple au service des personnes âgées. 14 p.
UJIMOTO, Victor K.  (1992), "Technology and Aging in Canada", International Journal  of Technology and Aging, Vol. 5, No. 1, p. 1-120 (summary).
VALLIèRES, Martin.  " Après le métro de Montréal, Télécité convoite Toronto,    Washington, Atlanta et Los Angeles", Les Affaires, 1 p.
VAN NOORDEN, L. and MCEWAN, J.  (1991), "Pilot Applications for Advanced       Communication Technology in Care for the Elderly in Europe",                                                                                Gerontechnology:  1st International Conference on Technology and                                                                                Aging, p. 271-276.
WATZKE, J., WISTER, A.V. and GUTMAN, G.M.  (1993), Emergency Medical Alert     Technology:  Initial Results front the First Wave of a Longitudinal                                                                                Study, 19 p.
WATZKE, James and BIRCH, Gary.  " Older Adults Responses to Automated           Environmental                                                                                Control                                                                                Devices",                                                                                Canadian                                                                                Association on                                                                                Gerontology,                                                                                23 p.
WATZKE, James R. and KEMP, Bryan. (1992), "Safety for Older Adults:  the Role of  Technology and the Home Environment", Top Geriatr Rehabil, Vol. 7,     No. 4, p. 9-21.
WHITTEN, P. Raymond. (1988), "The National Aeronautics and Space Administration     (NASA) Technology Transfer Process and Its Application to                    the Elderly", International Journal of Technology and                    Aging, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 85-97.
YAHNKE, Robert, E.  (1989), "Using Educational Films to Recreate the Experience of      Aging:  A New Direction for Gerontological Education",                    Educational Gerontology, Vol. 15, p. 453-463.
YOUNG, Jeffry J.  (1989), Advancing the Continuing Learning Activities of Retired  Persons:  A Challenge for Higher Education, Vol. 2, No. 2,          p. 135-141.
ZANDRI, Elaine and CHARNESS, Neil. (1989), "Training Older and Younger          Adults   to Use Software", Educational Gerontology, Vol. 15, p. 615-631.
GLOSSARY
Older adult, senior and senior citizen:
in the interest of convenience and representativeness, this study has     selected the terms older adult, senior and senior citizen to refer to     individuals aged 55 years or more.
Home automation:
this term refers to computerized management of various home functions     from a central unit linked to various parts of the home, coupled with     a capacity for bidirectional communication outside the home using an     electronic network.
Ergonomics:
the scientific study of working conditions and human-machine     relationships.
Gerontechnology:
the study of relationships between technology and aging, intended to     facilitate daily life for older adults.
Interface:
a set of rules and conventions that two given systems must observe     before they can exchange information.
Multimedia:
a term that encompasses the storage, processing and presentation of     information in several different forms:  text, fixed or animated     images, sound, and the like.
Communication and information technologies (CITs):
all technologies supporting remote communication and the     manipulation, management or production of information in the form of     text, image or sound.
Examples are cable television, video or audio cassettes, video discs, compact disc readers, computers, telephone, and the like.
Assistive technologies:
technologies enabling an individual to compensate for a disability     (for example, adapted telephone for the hearing impaired) or overcome     a handicap (for example, a computer voice recognition system).
Telematics:
all services and techniques that combine computer and     telecommunications technologies.
Telephony:
telephone technology.
Teleworking:
a new organizational dynamic, making use of various communications and     information technologies, in which individuals work remotely, that     is, at some distance from their normal workplace; an example of this     would be working at home.
Interactive television:
a type of technology that allows television viewers to select content     or camera angles from a number of available options, and to obtain     answers to certain questions.
Video telephones or video phones:
a technique by which sound and images can be simultaneously     transmitted to a remote location.
R. v. Burlingham, [1995] 2 S.C.R. 206
Terrence Wayne Burlingham
Appellant
v.
Her Majesty The Queen
Respondent
Indexed as:  R. v. Burlingham
File No.:  23966.
1994:  November 9; 1995:  May 18.
Present:  La Forest, L'Heureux-Dube, Sopinka, Gonthier, Cory, Iacobucci and  Major JJ.
on appeal from the court of appeal for british columbia
Constitutional law --
Charter of Rights --
Right to counsel --
Plea  bargaining --
Interrogation continuing despite assertion of right to lawyer --
Plea  bargain made in absence of lawyer --
Deal involving accused's telling police where  murder occurred and where to find murder weapon --
Deal significantly affecting  rights and ultimately misunderstood by accused --
Police leaving accused with  understanding that he would be charged with second-degree murder with right to plead not guilty --
Crown's offer requiring accused to plead guilty to second-degree  murder --
Accused telling third party of what he had told police --
Murder weapon  admitted as real evidence and third party testifying as to what accused told her --
Whether breach of right to counsel --
If so, whether gun, evidence of third party and  other derivative evidence should be excluded --
Canadian Charter of Rights and  Freedoms, ss. 10(b), 24(2).
Criminal law --
Powers of court of appeal --
Evidence obtained in breach  of constitutional right admitted at trial --
If wrongly admitted, whether curative  provisions of Criminal Code applicable --
Criminal Code, R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46,  s. 686(1)(b)(iii).
The appellant, who had been charged with one murder and was suspected  in a second, was subjected to an intensive and often manipulative interrogation by the police.
He was systematically questioned notwithstanding his stating repeatedly that  he would not speak unless he could consult with his lawyer.
The police interrogators  also constantly denigrated the integrity of defence counsel.
The police offered the appellant a "deal":
he would be charged with  second degree murder if he provided the police with the location of the gun and other ancillary information related to that murder.
When the appellant refused to accept the  "deal" without consulting his lawyer, the officers continued to badger him about the reliability of his lawyer and informed him this "one-time" chance would be kept open only for the weekend -- the period when appellant's counsel was unavailable.
The  appellant eventually agreed, despite his being advised by another lawyer not to talk to the police, and fulfilled his part of the deal by giving police a full confession, bringing them to the murder site, and telling them where the murder weapon had been thrown.
The appellant recounted the events of the day and the information he had given to the  police to his girlfriend.
A misunderstanding arose as to the deal.
The appellant understood that  he would be allowed to plead not guilty to a charge of second degree murder whereas the Crown insisted that he would have to plead guilty to that charge.
The trial judge  found as a fact that the police officers had made an honest mistake.
The appellant was charged with first degree murder.
At trial, the Crown  sought to introduce all of the evidence obtained while the appellant had been under the misunderstanding that he was participating in a valid agreement.
The trial judge found  that appellant's right to counsel (s. 10(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms) had been breached and held that appellant's confession, his disclosure of the location of the weapon and his directions and gestures to the police were inadmissible.
He admitted the fact of finding the gun, the actual gun, testimony of a  witness, testimony identifying the gun and the testimony of his girlfriend regarding the statements appellant made to her.
The appellant was convicted of the first degree  murder and the Court of Appeal affirmed that decision.
At issue here is whether or  not appellant was denied his right to counsel guaranteed by s. 10(b) of the Charter, and if so, what was the just and appropriate remedy under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
Held (L'Heureux-Dube J. dissenting in part):
The appeal should be  allowed.
Per La Forest, Sopinka, Cory, Iacobucci and Major JJ.:
The "deal"  fundamentally changed the prosecution to involve a different offence and so brought the accused's right to counsel under s. 10(b) of the Charter into play.
This right was  denied in several ways.
First, the police refused to hold off and continued to question  him despite his repeated statements that he would say nothing without consulting his lawyer.
Second, s. 10(b) specifically prohibits the police from belittling an accused's  lawyer with the express goal or effect of undermining the accused's relationship with defence counsel.
Third, the police acted improperly when they pressured the accused  to accept the "deal" without first giving him the chance to consult his lawyer.
Their  duties were not discharged, given the seriousness of the offence and the context of general trickery, when they allowed the accused to consult a random lawyer.
Section 10(b) mandates the Crown or police, whenever offering a plea  bargain, to tender that offer either to the accused's counsel or to the accused while in the presence of his or her counsel, unless the accused has expressly waived the right to counsel.
It is a constitutional infringement to place such an offer directly to an  accused, especially when the police coercively leave it open only for the short period of time during which they know defence counsel to be unavailable.
Mere expediency  or efficiency or the facilitating of the investigatory process was not enough to create an urgency sufficient to permit a s. 10(b) breach.
To the extent that the plea bargain is  an integral element of the Canadian criminal process, the Crown and its officers engaged in the plea bargaining process must act honourably and forthrightly.
These proceedings should not be stayed;
stays should only be limited to  the "clearest of cases".
Evidence obtained in a manner that infringes an accused's Charter rights,  should be excluded under s. 24(2) if, having regard to all of the circumstances, its admission would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
Under the test in  R. v. Collins, three categories of factors are to be considered:  (1) those affecting the fairness of the trial; (2) those relating to the seriousness of the violation; and, (3) those relating to the effect on the reputation of the administration of justice of excluding the evidence.
The impact of the evidence on the fairness of the trial was determined to be  the most important consideration in triggering the Charter's exclusionary effect.
Self-incriminatory evidence obtained as a result of a Charter breach will  generally go to the fairness of the trial and should generally be excluded.
Trial  unfairness strikes at the heart of the reputation of the administration of justice.
That  the evidence is classified as either real or conscriptive should not be of itself determinative.
Consideration of what evidence should be excluded should begin with that  evidence most proximate to the Charter breach and then work towards evidence arising more remotely from it.
More remote evidence might not be admitted if its  admission would have the same effect as admitting the proximate evidence.
Here, the  contested evidence most proximate to the breach was the finding of the gun because the gun would not have been found but for the unconstitutional behaviour of the police.
Appellant's statement voluntarily made to his girlfriend about directing the  police to the location of the gun too was derivative evidence flowing from his confused state of mind stemming from the s. 10(b) violations and the critical decisions made in the absence of counsel.
It was not mere windfall evidence for the Crown.
Nothing would have been said had appellant not been improperly conscripted by the  police to provide evidence against himself.
Evidence lying in close proximity with the Charter breach is excluded  because it detracts from the integrity of the trial and thereby infringes both the principles of fairness and of reliability.
Here, the Crown sought to introduce the  statement at trial precisely because doing so allowed it to do indirectly what the trial judge had ruled it could not do directly:  introduce evidence that the appellant knew where the gun was hidden.
Excluding the gun while including the statements  effectively eviscerates the Charter of most of its protective value to the accused in this case.
Where the impugned evidence flows from a violation of the s. 10(b) right  to counsel, the Crown must demonstrate on a balance of probabilities that, regarding the unfairness of the trial component of the test under s. 24(2), the accused would not have consulted counsel even if properly advised.
The Crown did not meet this burden  here.
Given the serious nature of the Charter breach, the admission of the  impugned evidence would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
The  violation was wilful and flagrant and there was no element of urgency.
The effect of  excluding the evidence on the reputation of the administration of justice will be incidental and far outweighed by the negative consequences that would follow were this unconstitutional evidence to be included.
The fact that the impugned evidence  played only a minor role in the trial was irrelevant to a s. 24(2) analysis.
The effect of  evidence at the trial may be relevant in a consideration of the effects of excluding the evidence on the reputation of the administration of justice but no framework has been established to consider the effect of including the evidence.
Such a framework should  not be created here.
Section 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Code (the curative provision)  should not be applied here because the admission of unconstitutionally obtained evidence at trial amounted to a "substantial wrong".
There was a reasonable  possibility that the impugned evidence could have weighed significantly in the conviction.
Per Sopinka, Cory, Iacobucci and Major JJ.:
The reasons and conclusion  of Iacobucci J. were agreed with.
These reasons address L'Heureux-Dube J.'s point  that this Court has departed from R. v. Collins in favour of a rule of automatic exclusion.
Differing opinions exist among both commentators and the public as to  the appropriate approach to the exclusion of evidence under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
With respect to the suggestion that this Court is out of step with public opinion,  individual rights are not to be submitted to an adjudication by the majority.
Furthermore, there is no accurate assessment of public opinion.
The test with respect  to what could bring the administration of justice into disrepute is grounded in longer term community values rather than the public passion of the moment.
These  values  are to be assessed in terms of the views of the hypothetical, reasonable, well-informed and dispassionate person in the community.
This Court's s. 24(2) jurisprudence, subsequent to Collins, has generally  evolved with due respect for stare decisis but also with due regard for the fact that as an early comprehensive statement of principles, it did not purport to be exhaustive or immutable.
The key words in that judgment, "conscripted against himself through a  confession or other evidence emanating from him", necessitated further definition in subsequent cases.
Whether it was ever so intended, it soon became apparent that real  evidence and evidence emanating from the accused were not mutually exclusive categories.
It is unfair for the Crown to make out its case in whole or in part by the  use of evidence that it obtained in breach of the rights of the accused and involving his or her participation.
The participation of the accused in providing incriminating  evidence involving a breach of Charter rights is the ingredient that tends to render the trial unfair as he or she is not under any obligation to assist the Crown to secure a conviction.
Serious breaches of the Charter which do not involve the participation of  the accused may result in the exclusion of the evidence under the second branch of the Collins test.
The application of the Reliability and the Fairness Principles as suggested  L'Heureux-Dube J. does not constitute a return to Collins.
Nowhere in Collins is the  fairness of the trial equated with the reliability of the evidence.
The description used  in Collins as to the kind of evidence that could render a trial unfair was "a confession or other evidence emanating from him".
Even the admissibility of a "confession" is  not determined solely on the basis of reliability.
Prior to the Charter and at common  law, reliability ceased to be the exclusive basis for excluding confessions.
The fairness  of the trial was also a factor in the exclusion of involuntary confessions.
The  reliability principle would, therefore, impose a more restrictive exclusionary rule than that which existed at common law.
Its preoccupation with the probative value of the  evidence would also appear to be a close relative of the rule in R. v. Wray.
This case  was widely criticized, has not been followed by this Court and was not the basis for the exclusionary power adopted by the Charter in s. 24(2).
The first branch of the Collins test cannot be accurately characterized as  an automatic rule of exclusion with respect to all self-incriminating evidence.
While a  finding that admission of illegally obtained evidence would render the trial unfair will result in exclusion, the court must first conclude that "in all the circumstances" the admission of the evidence would render the trial unfair.
The discoverability or "but for" test can be traced to Collins.
While the  Court has not decided the extent to which discoverability is relevant in all aspects of the Collins test, it has been applied to admit as well  as to exclude evidence.
The  distinction made in Collins between real evidence and evidence emanating from the accused was based, at least in part, on the rationale that real evidence (or things) can be discovered without the participation of the accused.
They pre-existed the state  action which is called into question, and were there to be discovered by investigative means not involving the accused.
Where this distinction is blurred, discoverability has  been used to place the evidence in one or other of these two categories.
If the  evidence was discoverable without the participation of the accused, then it has the attributes of real evidence.
Conversely, evidence that clearly emanates from the  accused such as statements has not been subjected to the discoverability analysis.
The distinction between real and conscriptive evidence is thus not  determinative and greater emphasis has been placed on the discoverability or "but for" test.
The law relating to s. 24(2) should be developed on this basis rather than the  new approach advocated by L'Heureux-Dube J.
This approach to date is more  consistent with Collins, and therefore with stare decisis.
Per Gonthier J.:
The reasons of L'Heureux-Dube J., read together with  the comments of Sopinka J., contribute to a proper understanding of the principles governing the exclusion of evidence under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
Evidence of the  accused's statement to his girlfriend, evidence of the gun and of its location, all of which were made possible by this statement, were to be excluded for its admission would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of a reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
The  statement was intimately connected to that deal which was obtained through the highly egregious conduct of the police officers in pressing the accused to confess and in systematically undermining the role of defence counsel.
This conduct was a  Charter violation of the most serious kind, bringing into play both the Reliability and the Fairness Principles referred to by L'Heureux-Dube J., although other evidence served to allay concern as to reliability.
The curative provisions of s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of  the Criminal Code should not be applied.
Per L'Heureux-Dube J. (dissenting in part):
The police conduct  constituted a serious violation of the s. 10(b) Charter right to counsel.
The Crown or  police, when offering a plea bargain, must tender the offer to either the accused's counsel or the accused while in the presence of his or her counsel, unless the accused has expressly waived the right to counsel.
Certain of the evidence derived from the Charter breach need not be  excluded under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
Section 24(2) is not to be apprised according  to the views of the reasonable lawyer, but simply according to the reasonable person, dispassionate and fully informed of the circumstances.
Under s. 24(2), a court's duty  to preserve the integrity and repute of the judicial system in the eyes of the Canadian community must prevail if in conflict with its more general duty under the Charter to vindicate the rights guaranteed therein.
There is some evidence to suggest that a  material gap has developed between the views of the community and those of the Court with respect to the exclusion of unconstitutionally obtained evidence.
In  particular, this is attributable to the broad interpretation that this Court has given to the term "trial fairness" in the first branch of the Collins test, and the virtually absolute exclusionary consequences that follow from a finding of "trial unfairness".
This approach to "trial fairness" is inconsistent with the first principles laid down by  this Court in Collins and with the courts' obligation under s. 24(2) to adjudicate upon the exclusion of the impugned evidence "having regard to all the circumstances".
The  nature of the evidence (real or self-incriminatory, or discoverable or undiscoverable) should not be determinative of "trial fairness", and therefore of almost automatic exclusion.
" Trial fairness" should not be so broadly defined as to allow the "trial  fairness" tail to wag the s. 24(2) dog.
At the time that s. 24(2) was enacted, the common law in Canada was in  the process of recognizing two different bases for the exclusion of evidence.
The first  was reliability.
The second was the integrity of the justice system.
This constituted  the legal context in which s. 24(2) was enacted, and against which the approach to s. 24(2) in Collins was elaborated.
Two fundamental principles are identified as flowing  from the common law and the Charter, and as underlying the Court's approach to s. 24(2).
The first, the Reliability Principle, is engaged whenever anything done by the  authorities casts some doubt as to the accused's having been induced to make a possibly unreliable statement.
In such circumstances, there may be a concern that the  trier of fact could be misled, or an innocent person convicted, as a result of the authorities' activities.
These circumstances potentially affect the fairness of the actual  adjudicative process, and therefore relate to the first set of factors to be considered under Collins.
The admission of evidence whose reliability may be suspect as a result  of state activity would almost inevitably bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
The second principle is the Fairness Principle.
This principle is engaged  whenever the state uses methods to advance its case against an accused in a manner that undermines values that are fundamental to a free and democratic society.
Judicial  condonation of acts that violate this principle undermine the integrity of the justice system, and could bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
Thus, where the  objection to the admission of unconstitutionally obtained evidence is not so much that it could mislead a trier of fact but pertains rather to the manner in which the evidence was obtained, this objection relates to the Fairness Principle.
All considerations  relating to the Fairness Principle are better considered within the rubric of the second branch of the Collins test: the impact of the seriousness of the rights violation on the reputation of the justice system.
Analysis under this branch of Collins must be  undertaken "having regard to all of the circumstances".
Whether or not the evidence  could have been discovered "but for" the rights violation is a serious, albeit not determinative, consideration within this set of factors.
Finally, under the third branch  of the Collins test, courts must ensure that there is a sense of proportionality between the competing interests and effects at issue in the s. 24(2) determination.
In this case, the "proximate connection" between the s. 10(b) violation  and the accused's voluntary statement to his girlfriend is sufficient to bring that statement within the purview of a s. 24(2) examination.
The mere fact that the  statement is proximately connected to the rights violation or may not have been made but for the violation does not, however, inevitably lead to the conclusion that it must be excluded since its admission would render the trial unfair.
Although the accused  was incarcerated at the time, the statement was freely and voluntarily made with no element of state compulsion to taint it with the possibility of unreliability, and therefore with the possibility of unfairness to the trial.
Turning to the impact of the seriousness of the rights violation on the  reputation of the justice system, it is noted that the direct and intended fruits of the officers' unconstitutional conduct were properly excluded by the trial judge.
The  voluntary statement to a third party was, however, an evidentiary windfall, and its admission is therefore less likely to bring the administration of justice into disrepute over the long term.
Admittedly, if this statement would not otherwise have been  made by the accused, then it could affect the integrity of the judicial system to admit such a statement at trial.
This consideration is not, of itself, determinative of the  question of exclusion.
In this case, having regard to the seriousness of the offence and  the fact that it was incidental to the officer's unconstitutional conduct, the exclusion of this reliable evidence would bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute than its inclusion.
The impugned statement tends to connect the accused more closely with  the crime, and could give rise to an inference of consciousness of guilt.
That its  admission may create a danger that the trier of fact will be misled does not relate to "trial fairness" in any way that is relevant to s. 24(2).
Trial fairness will only be  connected to the rights violation, and therefore subject to special scrutiny under the first branch of the Collins analysis,  when there is some possibility that the evidence is unreliable or otherwise likely to lead to the conviction of an innocent person, and when this unreliability is somehow attributable to the state's unconstitutional conduct.
Such was not the case here.
Under the circumstances, there was no  reasonable possibility of unreliability in the statement.
If there is nonetheless a  possibility that the statement is prejudicial in the evidentiary sense, in that it could mislead a trier of fact by causing it to follow an inappropriate chain of logic, then that problem must be addressed within the context of the traditional balancing test which inquires into whether the probative value of the evidence outweighs its prejudicial effect.
Since the voluntary statement to the third party was admissible under  s. 24(2) of the Charter, the admission of the gun and the fact of finding the gun would not bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
Section 24(2) of the Charter and the curative provision of the Criminal  Code, s. 686(1)(b)(iii), are not co-extensive.
First, s. 686(1)(b)(iii) only requires that  the appellate court consider the particular circumstances before it, whereas s. 24(2) involves long-term considerations in any determination made as to admissibility.
Second, the French version of s. 24(2), on which the Collins framework is based,  requires that evidence be excluded "if its admission could bring the administration of justice into disrepute".
A conclusion that the administration of justice could be  brought into disrepute by the admission of certain evidence does not necessarily mean that its admission led to a "substantial wrong" or "miscarriage of justice".
Third, the  two provisions further different objectives and so have different focuses.
The  primary purpose of s. 24(2), which focuses on whether the inclusion or exclusion of evidence obtained in violation of the Charter would bring the administration of justice into further disrepute, is protection of the integrity of the judicial system.
By  contrast, the primary purpose of s. 686(1)(b)(iii), which focuses on the outcome of the particular proceedings, is to enable appellate courts to feel unhindered in clarifying errors of law committed by the trial judge.
It reflects a careful balancing of collective  interests in the effective and efficient conclusion of litigation against the right of the individual accused to a full and fair trial.
Given the strength of the Crown's case, the curative provisions of  s. 686(1)(b)(iii) could be properly invoked notwithstanding a finding that evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2).
Moreover, the trial judge warned the jury  as to the limited probative value of both the gun and the impugned statement.
There  is no reasonable possibility that the verdict would have been different had the impugned evidence been excluded under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
A stay of proceedings was not appropriate because the conduct of the  authorities, while contemptible, did not amount to one of the "clearest of cases" of abuse of process.
The Crown, however, did act with male fides by charging the  accused with first degree murder notwithstanding the fact that the Crown was aware that the police had misled the accused and that he had fulfilled his half of the bargain in full reliance of the deal offered by the police.
This conduct violates basic principles  of decency and fair play.
The principle of fundamental fairness under s. 7 of the  Charter was therefore breached.
It would be appropriate and just under s. 24(1) of  the Charter to require the Crown to uphold its half of the "deal";
a conviction for the  lesser included offence of second degree murder should be substituted for the present conviction of first degree murder.
Cases Cited
By Iacobucci J.
Considered:  R. v. Mellenthin, [1992] 3 S.C.R. 615; R. v. Strachan,  [1988] 2 S.C.R. 980; distinguished:  R. v. Black, [1989] 2 S.C.R. 138; R. v. Hodge (1993), 133 N.B.R. (2d) 240; referred to:  R. v. Prosper, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 236; R. v. Matheson, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 328; R. v. Brydges, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 190; R. v. Evans, [1991] 1 S.C.R. 869; R. v. Power, [1994] 1 S.C.R. 601; R. v. L. (W.K.), [1989] B.C.J. No. 1700 (C.A.) (Q.L.), aff'd [1991] 1 S.C.R. 1091; R. v. Collins, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 265; R. v. Gladstone (1985), 22 C.C.C. (3d) 151; R. v. Jacoy, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 548; R. v. Wigman, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 246; R. v. Broyles, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 595; R. v. Hebert, [1990] 2 S.C.R. 151; R. v. Elshaw, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 24; R. v. Bevan, [1993] 2 S.C.R. 599; R. v. Ross, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 3; Thomson Newspapers Ltd. v. Canada (Director of Investigation and Research, Restrictive Trade Practices Commission), [1990] 1 S.C.R. 425; R. v. Colarusso, [1994] 1 S.C.R. 20; R. v. S. (R.J.), [1995] 1 S.C.R. 451; R. v. Bartle, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 173; R. v. Grant, [1993] 3 S.C.R. 223; R. v. Pozniak, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 310; R. v. Therens, [1985] 1 S.C.R. 613; John v. The Queen, [1985] 2 S.C.R. 476.
By Sopinka J.
Considered:  R. v. Collins, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 265; R. v. Ross, [1989] 1  S.C.R. 3; Thomson Newspapers Ltd. v. Canada (Director of Investigation and Research, Restrictive Trade Practices Commission), [1990] 1 S.C.R. 425; referred to:  R. v. Genest, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 59; Rothman v. The Queen, [1981] 1 S.C.R. 640; R. v. Hebert, [1990] 2 S.C.R. 151; R. v. Whittle, [1994] 2 S.C.R. 914; R. v. Sang, [1980] A.C. 402; R. v. S. (R.J.), [1995] 1 S.C.R. 451; R. v. Tremblay, [1987] 2 S.C.R. 435; R. v. Mohl, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1389; R. v. Dersch, [1993] 3 S.C.R. 768; R. v. Black, [1989] 2 S.C.R. 138; R. v. Mellenthin, [1992] 3 S.C.R. 615; R. v. Strachan, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 980; R. v. Elshaw, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 24; R. v. Bartle, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 173; R. v. Meddoui (1990), 61 C.C.C. (3d) 345; disapproved:  R. v. Wray, [1971] S.C.R. 272.
By L'Heureux-Dube J. (dissenting in part)
R. v. Collins, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 265, rev'g (1983), 5 C.C.C. (3d) 141;  Rothman v. The Queen, [1981] 1 S.C.R. 640; R. v. Ross, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 3; Thomson Newspapers Ltd. v. Canada (Director of Investigation and Research, Restictive Trade Practices Commission), [1990] 1 S.C.R. 425; R. v. Mellenthin, [1992] 3 S.C.R. 615; R. v. Prosper, [1994] 3 S.C.R 236; R. v. Stinchcombe, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 326; R. v. S. (R.J.), [1995] 1 S.C.R. 451; R. v. Meddoui (1990), 61 C.C.C. (3d) 345; R. v. Dersch, [1993] 3 S.C.R. 768; R. v. Duarte, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 30; R. v. Wiggins, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 62; R. v. Wray, [1971] S.C.R. 272; R. v. Strachan, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 980; R. v. Hebert, [1990] 2 S.C.R. 151; R. v. Broyles, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 595; R. v. Seaboyer, [1991] 2 S.C.R. 577; R. v. Bevan, [1993] 2 S.C.R. 599; R. v. Elshaw, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 24; R. v. Hodge (1993), 133 N.B.R. (2d) 240; John v. The Queen, [1985] 2 S.C.R. 476.
Statutes and Regulations Cited
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, ss. 7, 10(b), 24(1), (2).
Constitution Act, 1982, s. 52(1). Criminal Code, R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46, ss. 686(1) [am. S.C. 1991, c. 43, s. 9 (Sch., item  8)] (a)(iii), (b)(iii), 691.
Authors Cited
Bryant, Alan W., Marc Gold, H. Michael Stevenson and David Northrup.  " Public  Attitudes Toward the Exclusion of Evidence:  Section 24(2) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms" (1990), 69 Can. Bar Rev. 1.
Bryant, Alan W., Marc Gold, H. Michael Stevenson and David Northrup.  " Public  support for the Exclusion of Unconstitutionally Obtained Evidence" (1990), 1 S.C.L.R. (2d) 555.
Deslisle, R. J.  "Collins: An Unjustified Distinction" (1987), 56 C.R. (3d) 216.
McLellan, A. Anne and Bruce P. Elman.  " The Enforcement of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms:  An Analysis of Section 24" (1983), 21  Alta. L. Rev. 205.
Morissette, Yves-Marie.  " The Exclusion of Evidence under the Canadian Charter of  Rights and Freedoms:  What to Do and What Not to Do" (1984), 29 McGill L.J. 521.
Paciocco, David M.  "The Judicial Repeal of s. 24(2) and the Development of the  Canadian Exclusionary Rule" (1990), 32 Crim. L.Q. 326.
Penney, Steven M.  "Unreal Distinctions:  The Exclusion of Unfairly Obtained Evidence Under s. 24(2) of the Charter" (1994), 32 Alta. L. Rev. 782
Quigley, Tim and Eric Colvin, "Developments in Criminal Law and Procedure: The 1988-89 Term" (1990), 1 S.C.L.R. (2d) 187.
Sopinka, John, Sidney N. Lederman and Alan W. Bryant. The Law of Evidence in  Canada. Toronto:  Butterworths, 1992.
Tanovich, David M.  "Can the Improper Admission of Evidence Under the Charter Ever be Cured?" (1994), 32 C.R. (4th) 82.
APPEAL from a judgment of the British Columbia Court of Appeal  (1993), 35 B.C.A.C. 81, 57 W.A.C. 81, 85 C.C.C. (3d) 343, dismissing an appeal from conviction by Toy J. sitting with jury.
Appeal allowed, L'Heureux-Dube J.  dissenting in part.
Sheldon Goldberg, for the appellant.
Colin M. Sweeney, for the respondent.
//Iacobucci J.//
The judgment of La Forest, Sopinka, Cory, Iacobucci and Major JJ. was  delivered by
1
IACOBUCCI J. --
This appeal, which comes to the Court as of right under s. 691 of the  Criminal Code, R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46, raises two sets of issues: (1) the content of an accused's right to counsel during the plea bargaining process; and (2) the appropriate remedy for an infringement of s. 10(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and more specifically, the reach of s. 24(2) to exclude from the trial process evidence obtained in a manner violative of the right to counsel.
A.
Background
2
Terrence Burlingham, the appellant, is accused of the murder of Denean Worms,  which was committed in October 1984 in Cranbrook, British Columbia.
He has also  been convicted of the murder of Brenda Hughes, which was committed in December 1984 also in Cranbrook.
It was because of the very similar manner in which the two  women were murdered and sexually assaulted that the police charged appellant with the Worms murder at the point when it was decided to charge him with the Hughes murder.
Both Worms and Hughes were found naked, with semen in their vaginas, and  each was shot twice in the head at close range with a . 410 shotgun, though with  different types of pellets.
Appellant's appeal to the British Columbia Court of  Appeal on the conviction for the Hughes murder was dismissed.
This appeal relates  only to the appellant's conviction for the murder of Worms.
3
From January 1, to January 4, 1985, the police subjected appellant to an intensive and  often manipulative interrogation.
They systematically questioned him in spite of the  fact that he repeatedly stated that he would not speak unless he could consult with his lawyer.
The police urged the accused to tell them what he knew about the crime,  suggesting that any delay would hurt his parents since, just as they would be getting over the shock of the Hughes murder, they would be doubly hurt by a second murder charge.
One of the officers commented (quoted from the judgment of the British  Columbia Court of Appeal (1993), 85 C.C.C. (3d) 343, at pp. 356 and 359):

... I don't think that you're being very fair to them [appellant's  parents], um they, y'know they love you very much and, and from what I, I see, you're a, a loving caring sort of person and, and uh, y'know you have to weigh the, the advice that you're getting, but I can see that, that by delaying you're just hurting them
But basically what you're saying is you're going to put your parents  through this, for a long, uh, a lot longer.
From what I've seen I  thought you had a lot more love for them than that, Terry.
To which the appellant replied (at p. 359):

"From what I just seen, you're just trying  to use my parents against me."
4
The police also constantly denigrated the integrity of defence counsel;
the  interrogation record attests to repeated disparaging comments made about defence counsel's loyalty, commitment, availability, as well as the amount of his legal fees.
The interrogation officers suggested they were more trustworthy than the appellant's  lawyer.
The following excerpts from the interrogation record, cited at pp. 351-53, are  illustrative:

[Appellant]:
Well, that's what I told you and I told him I pretty well  got to talk to somebody about it, he [his counsel] said to talk to me about it.
[Officer #1]:
Talk to him?
This is your friend who wants $15,000  out of you, and you're going to talk to him?
[Appellant]:
- talk to him -.
[Officer #1]:
Well, it's, it's, it's obviously your choice, but I'll, I tell  you it, it kind of hurts if uh...
[Appellant]:
No, I, I'm not gonna, okay.
[Officer #1]:
It hurts if, if, that's what you think of us.
That's all  you think of us, after all.
[Appellant]:
That's not what I thought. -- uh, I don't know whether I  should follow his advice or maybe I shouldn't, like I mean I don't know.
. . .
[Officer #1]:
You gotta realize, just the fact of what you've --, you're  coming a long ways.
. . .
[Officer #1]:
Cause you're, you're admitting it basically.
[Appellant]:
Well...
[Officer #1]:
You're telling us that, that, that you, you were there,  and just the fact that you're doing that, that makes me feel a lot better about what you're.
. . .
[Appellant]:
I'm trying to word this as good as I can, um, like I say,  and I'm not saying that I ain't, uh I won't talk to you guys.
. . .
[Appellant]:
... I'd like to consult with him [counsel] first.
[Officer #1]:
Okay, that, that's -- uh --. He, he didn't even, -- didn't  tell you if he's going to even represent you?
[Appellant]:
No.
[Officer #1]:
Hah!
How much money does he want?
. . .
[Appellant]:
Well when I talk to my lawyer, um, I'm gonna pretty  well lay it on the line with him, and find out what or -- need to answer it, uh, -- answer -- won't bother -- to say anything at that time, but uh --
. . .
[Officer #1]:
Why, why do we, why do you want to wait, I don't  understand that and I, just for my own feelings, I'd like to know.
. . .
[Officer #1]:
Why you can trust him [counsel] more than you can  trust us?
[Appellant]:
All I'm saying is that, I won't say nothing at this time  until I talk to him.
. . .
[Officer #1]:
Think about it -- cause like I say, I, I tell you, I'm a  pessimist, cause I've seen lawyers before --.
5
And the comments continued as follows (at p. 354):
[Officer #1]:
Well has he talked anything other than money with  you?
[Appellant]:
No.
[Officer #1]:
Just money?
[Appellant]:
Uhh, what do you mean, anything...
[Officer #1]:
Like hasn't he talked about any, getting any sort of help  or anything?
[Appellant]:
No.
[Officer #1]:
Hmh!
All he's really been worried about is money,  money, money, eh?
6
On January 4, 1985 the police offered the appellant a "deal".
They claimed they had  instructions from their "boss" and Crown counsel to make such a deal.
The appellant  was told by the police that he would only be charged with the second degree murder of Worms in exchange for his providing to the police the location of the gun and other ancillary information related to the murder.
When the appellant refused to accept the  "deal" without consulting his lawyer, the officers continued to express doubts regarding the helpfulness of the appellant's counsel, emphasizing that he was taking the weekend off.
They then kept the deal open only for the weekend, the period of  time during which the appellant's counsel was unavailable, underscoring all the while that the deal was but a "one-time chance".
The trial record, as cited by the Court of  Appeal at pp. 358-59, reveals the following exchanges between the appellant and the law enforcement agents once the "deal" was proposed:

[Appellant]:
Why don't you tell my lawyer that [about the deal]?
[Officer #1]:
What?
That, that we would do this [deal]?
[Appellant]:
Yeah.
[Officer #1]:
He only talked to us for two minutes and left, he  wanted to have the weekend off, he's not even prepared to talk to us till Monday.
[Officer #2]:
We're talking to you, Terry, because I think you're the  one that should be --.
[Officer #1]:
You're the one that's sitting here, and your parents are  sitting at home!
. . .
[Officer #1]:
The difference is that your family are, are sitting there  for another week or two weeks, while your lawyer is going back and forth, having his weekends off and, and uh, whatever, and they're, they're just waiting for the knock on the door.
That's the difference.
I agree with  you, as far as the sentence is concerned, there's no difference.
None whatsoever, because you'll do the  time on the most serious, which we've already got. . . .
[Appellant]:
How do you know it's more serious?
[Officer #1]:
Well, because it's a First Degree [murder] charge.
We're  offering you the Second Degree one.
That's, that's like  uh...
I, I can't believe you're hedging on it. Jees, cause  that's, that would be. . . .
7
On the night of January 4, 1985, the appellant eventually acquiesced to the deal  despite having telephoned another lawyer who had advised him not to talk to the police.
The appellant fulfilled his half of the bargain:
by midnight the police had a full  confession, had been brought to the murder site, and had the possibility of locating the murder weapon.
On the morning of January 5, 1985, appellant told his girlfriend  Judy Hall that he had brought the police to the location where the gun had been left months earlier under what had since become the frozen Kootenay River.
He also told  her he knew (at p. 365) "... something about the death of Ms. Worms".
8
Later that day, however, the appellant was told the deal never existed in the manner in  which he understood it.
Apparently Crown counsel had only authorized the officers  to say that a plea of guilty to second degree murder would be accepted, not that the appellant would be charged with second degree murder, the difference being the accused would have the option to plead not guilty to second degree murder.
The trial  judge, Toy J. (as he then was), found as a fact that the police officers had made an honest mistake.
When informed about the aborted deal, the appellant's reaction was  as follows:

[Officer #1]:
Maybe I should bring you up first uh... just up on  what's transpired today with Crown counsel and everything.
. . .
[Officer #1]:
I don't know if you're going to be very happy with the  Crown, but what they've been saying is that uh... they  said that Glenn had no right to make any deals with you and their [sic] taking the you know it's probably no surprise to you but their [sic] taking the... the  uh... line that we decide on what charges are laid.
[Appellant]:
Ya, that's not very fair to me, though is it?
. . .
[Appellant]:
I mean uh... promises were made to me and there [sic]  not being kept.
. . .
[Appellant]:
So what you're telling is that it's another murder one  charge?
[Officer #1]:
I'm telling ya is that what I'm telling you is that the  Crown will not let us make deals and their [sic] ... their  [sic] the ones that uh... will decide on those sort of  things so that the problem is ... that their [sic] not  bound to go by and uh..
. . .
[Officer #1]:
... Like I say it's a piss off for everybody concerned
9
The appellant was charged on January 8, 1985, with the first degree murder of  Worms, and the Crown subsequently sought to introduce all of the evidence obtained while the appellant was under the misunderstanding that he was participating in a valid agreement.
Of particular significance is the fact that the police never consulted  with the appellant's counsel regarding the "deal" nor did they give the appellant the opportunity to speak to his counsel.
10
At trial, a breach of s. 10(b) of the Charter was found.
The trial judge held that, as a  result of this violation, the appellant's confession, his disclosure of the location of the weapon, as well as his directions and gestures to the police were inadmissible.
However, Toy J. admitted the fact of finding the gun, the actual gun, as well as Hall's  testimony regarding the statements made to her by the appellant.
The appellant was  convicted of the first degree murder of Denean Worms. He appealed.
The Court of  Appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge, but there was a strong dissent by McEachern C.J, who found that admitting any or all of the derivative evidence would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
B.
Analysis
11
Although the appellant has advanced some seven grounds for appeal, it is only proper  for this Court to consider those which gave rise to the dissenting opinion among the members of the British Columbia Court of Appeal since the appellant never submitted an application for leave with respect to the other issues.
The issues giving  rise to dissent in the court below all relate to the admissibility of the derivative evidence, more specifically: (1) the testimony from Hall that the appellant told her he showed the police where the gun could be found; (2) evidence that police divers had found the gun in the river; (3) testimony from   Everett Biddlecome (a witness) and the lawful owner of the gun (James Lewis) identifying the murder weapon at trial; and (4) the gun itself.
The admissibility of these pieces of evidence is contingent upon the  resolution of the legal questions at issue in this appeal:
namely (1) was the accused  denied his right to counsel under s. 10(b) of the Charter;
and (2) if so, what  consequences flow from that violation?
(i)
Was there a denial of the accused's right to counsel?
12
Section 10(b) of the Charter guarantees an accused the right, upon arrest and  detention, to retain and instruct counsel without delay and to be informed of that right.
This Court has consistently given a broad interpretation to s. 10(b).
In the case  at bar, there were several ways in which the appellant's right to counsel was denied.
13
First, the police continually questioned him despite his repeated statements that he  would say nothing absent consultation with his lawyer.
Section 10(b) requires,  barring urgent circumstances, that the police refrain from attempting to elicit incriminatory evidence once a detainee has asserted his or her right to counsel:
R. v.  Prosper, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 236; R. v. Matheson, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 328; R. v. Brydges, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 190.
14
Second, s. 10(b) specifically prohibits the police, as they did in this case, from  belittling an accused's lawyer with the express goal or effect of undermining the accused's confidence in and relationship with defence counsel.
It makes no sense for  s. 10(b) of the Charter to provide for the right to retain and instruct counsel if law enforcement authorities are able to undermine either an accused's confidence in his or her lawyer or the solicitor-client relationship.
15
Third, the improper conduct by the police regarding the plea bargain also amounted to  an infringement of s. 10(b).
On this issue, I would affirm the conclusion of Toy J. at  trial and McEachern C.J. on appeal that s. 10(b) was violated when the officers pressured the appellant into accepting the "deal" without first having the opportunity to consult with his lawyer.
16
An argument could be made that, at the moment the plea bargain was offered, no  s. 10(b) violation arose since the accused had an opportunity to call a lawyer, albeit not his particular lawyer, whom the police knew to be unavailable for the one night the offer was left open.
However, I am not persuaded by such an argument.
Allowing the appellant to call a random lawyer is, given the seriousness of the  situation he faced and the circumstances of this case, insufficient for the officers to discharge their responsibilities under s. 10(b).
This is especially so when the call to  this unknown lawyer is placed within the context of the general trickery and subterfuge used by the police in arranging matters so that the appellant himself had to decide on the plea in the absence of his own counsel.
Although it is clear that s. 10(b)  does not guarantee an accused the right to the counsel of his or her choice at all times, in a situation such as the appellant's I believe that either the offer should have been made at a point in time when the accused's lawyer (who was entirely familiar with the facts of his case) was available or the police should have kept it open to a point in time when the accused's counsel would reasonably be considered to be available.
17
In this conclusion I agree with the following passage from McEachern C.J.'s dissent in  the court below at pp. 367-68:

The s. 10 Charter rights of detained persons who have elected to exercise  their constitutional rights to retain and instruct counsel would be seriously compromised if police officers having complete control over such persons, should seek... directly or indirectly, to disregard or act  contrary to the advice they have received.
. . .
Even more serious, in my view, was the police insistence that the  accused make a decision that very evening when the police knew the lawyer for the accused was not available.
This is worse than the "unfair  trick" described in R. v. Hebert . . . , [1990] 2 S.C.R. 151, [at p. 158]
There was no urgency, and the police could well have waited over the  weekend when the matter could have been discussed with counsel for the accused.
Their failure to do so constituted a clear denial of the accused's  s. 10(b) Charter right to retain and instruct counsel.
18
When, at first, the appellant refused to accept the deal without consulting with a  lawyer, the officers resumed their attempts to discourage the appellant from meeting with his lawyer by observing that the appellant's lawyer was taking the weekend off, by stressing that any delays in accepting the deal would prove painful for the appellant's family, and by underscoring that the deal was being offered for that night only.
The end result of this badgering was that the accused did not understand the full  content of his right to counsel.
When it is evident that there is such a  misunderstanding, the police cannot rely on a mechanical recitation of the right to counsel in order to discharge their responsibilities under s. 10(b):
R. v. Evans, [1991]  1 S.C.R. 869, at p. 891.
They must take positive steps to facilitate that  understanding.
In the case at bar, not only did the police fail to take affirmative steps  to clear up the appellant's confusion, but they also in fact created this confusion in the first place.
19
The following excerpt from the decision of Toy J. indicates the extent to which the  appellant did not understand the meaning of the right to counsel:

In his testimony the accused was asked why, in light of the two  lawyers' advice not to speak to the police, he had done so and he replied, "I was under the impression that if I cooperated with the police I'd face a lesser charge and I DIDN'T NEED A LAWYER."
In my judgment this  impression is totally justifiable when one reads the transcript of the denigrating way the police officers referred to the accused's then lawyer.
[Emphasis in original.]
It is thus apparent from the transcripts that the accused would not have made the deal  with police if it were not for the concerted effort by the police to convince the accused not to consult with his counsel.
20
I underscore that, in Evans, supra, at pp. 886-87 and 893, McLachlin J. held that the  police have the duty to advise a suspect of the right to counsel where there is a fundamental and discrete change in the purpose of an investigation which involves a different and unrelated offence or a significantly more serious offence than that contemplated at the time of the original instruction of the right to counsel.
Such a  situation arose in the case at bar.
The deal offered by the police involved a different  offence and was of such material importance to the appellant that it constituted a fundamental change in the course of his prosecution.
For the reasons discussed  earlier, a genuine effort should have been made to contact the accused's own lawyer.
21
Furthermore, I conclude that s. 10(b) mandates the Crown or police, whenever  offering a plea bargain, to tender that offer either to accused's counsel or to the accused while in the presence of his or her counsel, unless the accused has expressly waived the right to counsel.
It is consequently a constitutional infringement to place  such an offer directly to an accused, especially (as in the present appeal) when the police coercively leave it open only for the short period of time during which they know defence counsel to be unavailable.
In the case at bar, the police should have  negotiated the "deal" with the appellant's counsel or, at a minimum, with the appellant while accompanied by his lawyer.
22
I emphasize that, in the case at bar, there was no urgency to the matter.
Mere  expediency or efficiency is not sufficient to create enough "urgency" to permit a s. 10(b) breach:
Prosper, supra.
Neither the  precipitous issuing of the plea bargain by  the police nor their conscious undermining of the accused's relationship with his counsel can be justified on the basis that such conduct allegedly facilitated the investigatory process.
23
In closing, given the appellant's success on the other questions he raises, I need not  deal with his submission that the breach by the Crown of the plea bargain deal also triggered constitutional violations.
However, I should mention that, to the extent that  the plea bargain is an integral element of the Canadian criminal process, the Crown and its officers engaged in the plea bargaining process must act honourably and forthrightly.
(ii)
What is the just and appropriate remedy?
24
Having found a serious Charter violation, I now turn to the question of the  appropriate remedy.
I see no reason to interfere with the lower courts' conclusion  that it is inappropriate to stay these proceedings.
Stays should only be limited to  the  "clearest of cases" and, despite the exhortations of appellant's counsel to the contrary, this is not such a case:
R. v. Power, [1994] 1 S.C.R. 601.
After all, a judicial stay is  "the most drastic of remedies":
R. v. L. (W.K.), [1989] B.C.J. No. 1700 (C.A.) (QL),  aff'd [1991] 1 S.C.R. 1091.
Therefore, given the inappropriateness of staying these  proceedings on account of the s. 10(b) violation, the fundamental question that must be addressed is whether s. 24(2) of the Charter can operate to exclude any or all of the derivative evidence that had been admitted at trial.
25
Section 24(2) provides that when evidence is obtained in a manner that infringes an  accused's Charter rights, this evidence shall be excluded from the trial process if it is established that, having regard to all of the circumstances, the admission of such evidence would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
The approach to be  employed in interpreting the content of "bringing the administration of justice into disrepute" was outlined by the Court in R. v. Collins, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 265.
It is  commonly recognized that the Collins decision established a test to gauge whether the impugned evidence ought to be admitted or excluded.
The purpose of this test is to  oblige law enforcement authorities to respect the exigencies of the Charter and to preclude improperly obtained evidence from being admitted to the trial process when it impinges upon the fairness of the trial.
26
I note that, at the time of trial, the Collins decision had not yet been rendered.
The  trial judge had consequently governed himself by the determinative authority in British Columbia at the time, R. v. Gladstone (1985), 22 C.C.C. (3d) 151 (B.C.C.A.), which adopted a narrower interpretation of s. 24(2) than that currently applicable.
As early as R. v. Jacoy, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 548, at p. 558, this Court decided that  Gladstone had been overtaken by more recent Supreme Court jurisprudence, most notably Collins.
Owing to the application of the "in the system rule" (R. v. Wigman,  [1987] 1 S.C.R. 246) the appellant is entitled to the benefit of the Collins test in terms of the disposition of his appeal.
27
When the Collins test is applied to the facts at bar, I find, as did McEachern C.J. in  dissent below, that all of the derivative evidence ought to be excluded.
28
In Collins, supra, at pp. 283-85, Lamer J. (as he then was) set forth a number of  criteria to be examined in determining whether the admission of evidence obtained in violation of a Charter right would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
In a subsequent decision, Jacoy, supra, Lamer J. then explicitly grouped  these factors into three categories: (1) those affecting the fairness of the trial; (2) those relating to the seriousness of the violation; and (3) those relating to the effect on the reputation of the administration of justice of excluding the evidence.
It appears that,  when the s. 24(2) analysis was first developed by this Court in Collins, the impact of the evidence on the fairness of the trial was determined to be the most important consideration under s. 24(2) in terms of triggering the exclusionary effect of the Charter remedy.
In Collins, supra, at p. 284, Lamer J. held:
If the admission of the evidence in some way affects the fairness of the  trial, then the admission of the evidence would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute and, subject to a consideration of the other factors, the evidence generally should be excluded.
[Emphasis in  original.]
29
In Collins, supra, at pp. 284-85, Lamer J. also noted that self-incriminatory evidence  obtained as a result of a Charter breach (i.e., evidence where the accused is conscripted against him- or herself through a confession or other evidence emanating from him or her) will generally go to the fairness of the trial and should generally be excluded.
It was expressly held that such evidence will generally arise in the context  of an infringement of the right to counsel.
For more recent cases on this point, see R.  v. Broyles, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 595; R. v. Hebert, [1990] 2 S.C.R.  151; R. v. Elshaw, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 24.
Trial unfairness strikes at the heart of the reputation of the  administration of justice:
Hebert, supra, at pp. 207-8;
see also J. Sopinka, S. N.  Lederman and A. W. Bryant, The Law of Evidence in Canada (1992), at p. 407, "[o]nce impugned evidence has been found to come within the trial fairness rationale, exclusion is virtually certain to follow".
30
On the other hand, Lamer J. noted that the admission of real evidence obtained in a  manner that violates the Charter will rarely operate unfairly for that reason alone.
This conclusion militates against the exclusion of the gun in the case at bar.
However,  I find that, in jurisprudence subsequent to Collins, this Court has consistently shied away from the differential treatment of real evidence.
For example, in R. v. Ross,  [1989] 1 S.C.R. 3, at p. 16, Lamer J. emphasized that the admissibility of evidence under s. 24(2) depended ultimately not on its nature as real or testimonial, but on whether or not it would only have been found with the compelled assistance of the accused:
...
the use of any evidence that could not have been obtained but for the  participation of the accused in the construction of the evidence for the purposes of the trial would tend to render the trial process unfair.
[Emphasis added.]
These comments are apposite to the case at bar.
Further, I draw attention to the  conclusions of La Forest J. in R. v. Colarusso, [1994] 1 S.C.R. 20, at p. 74, where it was noted that the mere fact that impugned evidence is classified as either real or conscriptive should not in and of itself be determinative.
31
The exclusion of real evidence was specifically dealt with in the  decision of this Court  in R. v. Mellenthin, [1992] 3 S.C.R. 615.
The Mellenthin case involved the exclusion  of drugs found in a car at a random roadside breathalyser checkstop.
Cory J.  reiterated the distinction between "independently existing evidence that could have been found without compelled testimony" and "independently existing evidence that would have been found without compelled testimony" (emphasis in original) established by La Forest J. in Thomson Newspapers Ltd. v. Canada (Director of Investigation and Research, Restrictive Trade Practices Commission), [1990] 1 S.C.R. 425, at p. 555.
The admission of evidence that simply "could have otherwise been  found" will have a higher chance of affecting the fairness of the trial.
In Mellenthin,  the admission into evidence of the drugs -- despite their status as real evidence -- would have certainly affected the trial's fairness because they would not have been found without the improper conduct.
The drugs were consequently deemed  inadmissible.
32
I conclude my review of the pertinent jurisprudence with the recent decision of R. v.  S. (R.J.), [1995] 1 S.C.R. 451.
In that case it was recognized that, despite the fact that  theoretically the onus rests on the accused to show that the impugned evidence would not have been found but for the unconstitutional conduct, in practice the burden will often fall on the Crown as it possesses superior knowledge.
It was held at p. 553 that  the "but-for" test will be met by the Crown when it satisfies the court on a balance of probabilities that the law enforcement authorities would have discovered the impugned derivative evidence regardless of the information arising from the unconstitutional conduct.
33
I now turn to the application of this jurisprudence to the case at bar. At the outset, I  note that my colleague, Justice L'Heureux-Dube, concludes that it is the Hall testimony that constitutes the crux of this appeal.
My colleague first decides to  determine the admissibility of Hall's testimony and, deeming it to be in fact admissible, then goes on to hold that the admission of the gun and the fact of finding the gun would not bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
With respect, I  find this approach to be inverted.
It is the gun and the fact of finding it that stand at  the heart of this appeal.
This is the key derivative evidence.
To this end, the  application of s. 24(2) should first concern itself with the gun and its finding, then Biddlecome's and Lewis' identification of it at trial, and thereafter the Hall testimony.
34
I suggest that it is appropriate to commence the consideration of what evidence  should or should not be excluded from the trial process with the evidence obtained most proximate to the Charter breach and then work towards evidence arising more remotely therefrom.
Since the trial judge deemed appellant's confession to be  inadmissible, the contested evidence most proximate to the breach is the finding of the gun.
As shall become evident, this gun would never have been found were it not for  the unconstitutional conduct by the police officers.
In any event, in terms of  formulating this analysis, it must be kept in mind that there may be times (as in this case) where more remote evidence might not be admitted if its admission would have the same effect as admitting the most proximate evidence.
35
As mentioned earlier, I find that  the derivative real evidence, the gun, would not have  been found but for the information improperly obtained through the s. 10(b) breach.
The question is not even whether such evidence would, on a balance of probabilities,  have otherwise been located.
The gun was at the bottom of the frozen Kootenay  River and the only person who knew of its location was the appellant.
In this regard,  this case can be sharply distinguished from R. v. Black, [1989] 2 S.C.R. 138.
In  Black, after the occurrence of a s. 10(b) violation, an accused helped the police identify a particular knife as the murder weapon.
Wilson J. admitted this piece of real  evidence, noting at p. 164 that she had "little doubt that the police would have conducted a search of the appellant's apartment with or without her assistance and that such a search would have uncovered the knife".
Consequently, the position that  the trial judge's discretion should, in the preponderance of cases, be exercised in favour of exclusion with respect to derivative evidence which would not have been obtained but for a witness's testimony is, in fact, consonant with Black.
36
On a policy level, if the appellant's gestures and directions arising from the s. 10(b)  violation are inadmissible yet real evidence obtained pursuant to these directions is admissible, this Court might create an incentive for law enforcement agents to disregard accused's Charter rights since, even in the case of an infringement of Charter rights, the end result might be the admission of evidence that, ordinarily, the state would not be able to locate.
37
I also share McEachern C.J.'s view that the appellant's statement to Hall that he had  directed the police to the location of the gun can be classified as derivative evidence.
It is true, as Cumming J.A. points out in his concurring majority opinion below, that  the appellant made this statement voluntarily and that Hall was not a person in authority.
However, even though the statement may not have been "caused" directly  by the breach, it was certainly made as a result of that breach.
The statements to Hall  flowed from the appellant's understandably confused state of mind stemming from the s. 10(b) violations and the critical decisions he had made in the absence of counsel.
The appellant was still under the erroneous impression that the "deal" was on.
The  statement was made the morning after the appellant had been unconstitutionally conscripted to provide evidence against himself.
He had never been properly  informed of his right to counsel and it cannot be said with any degree of conviction that he would have made the same statement to Hall had he been duly advised of his constitutional rights.
In fact, he would have had nothing to say to Hall had he not  been improperly conscripted to provide evidence against himself by the police in the first place.
For this reason, the rights violation had much more than, as characterized  by L'Heureux-Dube J., simply an incidental effect on the making of the impugned statement.
38
I note that my colleague describes these statements as a "windfall" to the Crown.
Such a description, in my view, overlooks the fact that the content of the appellant's  conversation with Hall is inextricably connected to the conduct of the police, found to violate s. 10(b).
These self-incriminatory statements amount to evidence that could  not have been obtained but for the unconstitutional manner in which the accused was tricked into participating in the construction of the evidence for the purposes of his trial.
Given that no satisfactory indication has been given that, on a balance of  probabilities, this evidence would have been found regardless of the unconstitutionally obtained information, it is to be excluded under s. 24(2):
R. v. Ross, supra; R. v. S.  (R.J.), supra.
39
The rationale behind the exclusion of evidence lying in close proximity with the  Charter breach stems from the fact that, in the case at bar, such evidence, if tendered at trial, detracts from the integrity of the trial and thereby infringes both the fairness principle and reliability principle evoked by L'Heureux-Dube J. in her reasons in the instant appeal.
There is an overlap between these two principles in so far as  unconstitutionally obtained information may well constitute unreliable evidence, especially when the particular constitutional right that has been breached is the right to counsel.
In any event, even if the improperly obtained evidence were reliable,  considerations of reliability are no longer determinative given that the Charter has made the rights of the individual and the fairness and integrity of the judicial system paramount:
Hebert, supra, at p. 178.
40
It is now necessary to focus more directly on the issues of proximity and remoteness.
In this regard, the decision of this Court in R. v. Strachan, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 980, at pp.  1005- 6, is helpful to this analysis.
41
Strachan concerned the admissibility of evidence (marijuana) obtained as a result of a  valid search during which the accused's right to counsel was violated.
Dickson C.J.  made it clear that a strict causal analysis is not necessary in a s. 24(2) analysis and that the presence of a temporal connection is not determinative.
He stated at  pp. 1005- 6:
In my view, all of the pitfalls of causation may be avoided by  adopting an approach that focuses on the entire chain of events during which the Charter violation occurred and the evidence was obtained
A  temporal link between the infringement of the Charter and the discovery of the evidence figures prominently in this assessment, particularly where the Charter violation and the discovery of the evidence occur in the course of a single transaction
[However] [t]here can be no hard and fast  rule for determining when evidence obtained following the infringement of a Charter right becomes too remote.
42
Seen in light of Dickson C.J.'s comments in Strachan, it appears that the problem  with Cumming J.A.'s reasoning with respect to the statement to Hall is that he fails to recognize the important connection between the content of the statement and the s. 10(b) violation.
The fact is that the Crown sought to introduce the statement at  trial precisely because it allowed it to do indirectly what the trial judge had ruled the Crown could not do directly: introduce evidence that the appellant knew where the gun was hidden.
In this regard, the inclusion of the statement to Hall would directly  affect the fairness of the trial, which is a key consideration in affecting the repute of the justice system, despite the fact that the statement was but remotely connected to the unconstitutional conduct.
In effect, excluding the gun while including the  statements effectively eviscerates the Charter of most of its protective value to the accused in this case;
including both would totally eliminate any such value.
At this  point, it is important to recall the observation by Lamer C.J. in R. v. Bartle, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 173, in which the opinion was expressed at pp. 208-9 that:
Generally speaking, so long as it is not too remotely connected with the  violation, all the evidence obtained as part of the "chain of events" involving the Charter breach will fall within the scope of s. 24(2). . . .
See also R. v. Grant, [1993] 3 S.C.R. 223, per Sopinka J.
43
Returning to the question of the self-incriminatory nature of the evidence and its  effect on the fairness of the trial, I agree entirely with McEachern C.J.'s reasons when he states at p. 377:

In my view, however, this was highly damaging evidence because  even if the circumstances of finding the gun, and the gun itself were admissible, the statement to Ms. Hall was the only evidence that fixed the accused with knowledge that the gun was in the river.
This fact tended to  connect the accused more closely with the crime and could give rise to an inference of consciousness of guilt on the part of the accused.
If, as I  believe, the finding of the gun and the gun itself was inadmissible, this statement was the only evidence that proved the gun was even in a river, and that would make an inference of consciousness of guilt even stronger
In this connection, it is significant that the accused did not know that  his s. 10(b) Charter rights had been violated at the time he made the first statement to Ms. Hall, or that the Crown would be reneging on its agreement with him.
More important is the fact that the statement was  so closely related both in time and content to the breach.
44
Furthermore, I note that in two recent decisions this Court has concluded that, in  cases of including evidence flowing from a s. 10(b) violation, the onus lies upon the Crown to demonstrate on a balance of probabilities that, regarding the unfairness of the trial component of the test under s. 24(2), the accused would not have consulted counsel even if properly advised:
Bartle, supra; R. v. Pozniak, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 310.
The Crown has clearly not met this burden, or even the less onerous requirements  stipulated in earlier jurisprudence.
45
Moreover, the serious nature of the Charter breach in this case also supports the  conclusion that the administration of justice would be brought into disrepute by the admission of the evidence.
In Collins, supra, at p. 285, Lamer J. quoted from Le Dain  J. in R. v. Therens, [1985] 1 S.C.R. 613, at p. 652:
The relative seriousness of the constitutional violation has been assessed  in the light of whether it was committed in good faith, or was inadvertent or of a merely technical nature, or whether it was deliberate, wilful or flagrant.
46
In this case, it is clear that the violation was wilful and flagrant.
It is also clear, as  discussed earlier, that there was no element of urgency.
Indeed, as McEachern C.J.  notes, the police actually created an artificial situation of urgency in order to trick the accused into accepting the deal without first consulting a lawyer.
47
As to the third branch of the Collins test, I am satisfied that the effect of excluding the  evidence on the reputation of the administration of justice will be incidental and far outweighed by the negative consequences that would follow were this unconstitutional evidence to be included.
I realize that the appellant stands accused of  a serious offence.
However, as shall become evident in my disposition of this matter,  the end result of allowing this appeal is not the issuance of a stay, but the ordering of a new trial in which the accused will have to meet the lawful evidence adduced against him.
All that is required is the holding of the constitutionally mandated fair trial that  should have occurred in the first place, and would have occurred were it not for the misconduct of the law enforcement agents.
48
I also find the submission that the impugned evidence ought to be included since there  is likely sufficient properly admissible evidence to convict the appellant to be unpersuasive.
While it is undeniable that the Crown had a very strong case even  without the impugned evidence, this Court has made it clear that the admission of self-incriminatory derivative evidence will generally affect the fairness of the trial and thereby bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
In any event, I find the  respondent's argument that the admission of the gun or the other derivative evidence did not play a central role in the trial to be irrelevant to s. 24(2).
Although the effect  of evidence at the trial may be relevant in a consideration of the third set of factors under Collins -- namely the effects of excluding the evidence on the reputation of the administration of justice, no framework has been established by the jurisprudence to consider the effect of including the evidence.
Nor should such a framework be  presently created.
49
In the case at bar, the nature of the Crown's argument in this regard is that, since the  impugned evidence is not extremely probative or decisive given the plethora of other clearly admissible evidence inculpating the appellant, this somehow diminishes the fact that it was obtained pursuant to an egregious constitutional violation.
Taken one  step further, this argument leads to the anomalous result that the Crown, while arguing strenuously that the impugned evidence should not be excluded, supports this claim by contending that the evidence was, after all, not really that important in the context of the appellant's trial.
50
In response, I underscore that we should never lose sight of the fact that even a  person accused of the most heinous crimes, and no matter the likelihood that he or she actually committed those crimes, is entitled to the full protection of the Charter.
Short-cutting or short-circuiting those rights affects not only the accused, but also the  entire reputation of the criminal justice system.
It must be emphasized that the goals  of preserving the integrity of the criminal justice system as well as promoting the decency of investigatory techniques are of fundamental importance in applying s. 24(2).
51
These goals operate independently of the type of crime for which the individual  stands accused.
I note that my colleague, L'Heureux-Dube J., suggests that the fact  that the crime for which appellant is charged (first degree murder) is the most serious in Canada militates in favour of including the unconstitutionally obtained evidence.
This contradicts the pronouncement of this Court in Collins in which Lamer J. held at  p. 286:
I hasten to add, however, that if the admission of the evidence would  result in an unfair trial, the seriousness of the offence could not render that evidence admissible.
52
Given the seriousness of the Charter violations, I agree with McEachern C.J. that this  is not a case where the curative effect of s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Code is appropriate since the admission of the unconstitutionally obtained evidence at trial amounted, in my mind, to a "substantial wrong" toward both the accused as well as the administration of justice:
Elshaw, supra.
After all, the improperly obtained  evidence formed a critical component of the Crown's case and it cannot be said that there is no reasonable possibility that the verdict would have been different were this evidence to have been properly excluded at trial:
R. v. Bevan, [1993] 2 S.C.R. 599.
This is not a case that fits into the small exception mentioned in Elshaw, supra, at  p. 46, where the curative provision could apply notwithstanding that evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2).
Unlike in R. v. Hodge (1993), 133 N.B.R. (2d)  240, where the curative provision was applied because the evidence excluded under s. 24(2) could not have factored very significantly in the conviction of the accused, I find that there was a reasonable possibility that the impugned evidence in this case (a murder weapon and evidence that the accused took the police to find that weapon) could have weighed significantly in his conviction.
The trial judge's instruction to the  jury reproduced by L'Heureux-Dube J. does not alter my view in this regard.
53
On a broader note, I am reluctant to open the door to the possibility that it shall  become commonplace for an accused to prove a Charter breach sufficient to impugn the repute of the administration of justice and then have s.  686(1)(b)(iii) deny that person the opportunity to have a fair trial in which he or she shall face evidence obtained in a constitutional manner.
Consideration should be given to limiting the  Elshaw exception only to cases in which it can be shown beyond a reasonable doubt that the impugned evidence excluded under s. 24(2) in light of a Charter violation did not contribute at all to the original verdict.
Focus is thus made on whether the  unconstitutionally conscripted evidence in any way influenced the verdict.
See David  M. Tanovich, "Can the Improper Admission of Evidence Under the Charter Ever be Cured?" (1994), 32 C.R. (4th) 82.
54
I also note, in closing, that in John v. The Queen, [1985] 2 S.C.R. 476, this Court held  that appellate courts should not retry cases to assess the worth of residual evidence after improperly adduced evidence has been extracted, given that appeal courts do not have the advantage of seeing the witnesses and were never intended to replace the triers of fact.
It was noted in John that in cases were such situations arise,  s. 686(1)(b)(iii) should not be invoked, but rather a new trial ought to be ordered.
I  find that, although the facts of John are different from those in the case at bar, the conclusions of law proposed by Estey and Lamer JJ. in that case are apposite to the present analysis.
55
Consequently, a new trial should be ordered in which the impugned evidence will not  be admitted, namely: (1) the Hall testimony regarding the appellant's recounting of the events of the night of January 4, 1985; (2) evidence that police divers had found the gun in the river; (3) the Biddlecome and Lewis testimony identifying the murder weapon at trial; and (4) the gun itself.
I add that, as was found at trial, the appellant's  confession as well as his gestures and directions to the police with regard to the location of the gun are equally inadmissible.
The Crown, if it chooses, can properly  introduce the rest of the evidence it has adduced against the accused, including, as noted by McEachern C.J., the evidence of Biddlecome and Lewis that the accused had possession of a sawed off . 410 shotgun shortly before the disappearance of  Ms. Worms as well as Hall's testimony that the accused had told her he was actually present when Biddlecome had beaten and killed Ms. Worms.
56
Since preparing the above, I have had the benefit of reading the reasons of Sopinka J.  regarding the manner in which the Court has been applying s. 24(2) of the Charter since the Collins decision.
I concur with his reasons.
C.
Conclusion
57
I would allow the appeal, set aside the judgment of the British Columbia Court of  Appeal, and, in lieu thereof, would order a new trial to be held consistent with these reasons.
//L'Heureux-Dube J.//
The following are the reasons delivered by
58
L'HEUREUX-DUBE J. (dissenting in part) -- I have read the reasons of my colleague  Justice Iacobucci and I agree with him that the accused's rights under s. 10(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms were clearly violated in the case at bar.
I  must respectfully disagree, however, with his proposed remedy under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
In particular, I do not believe that the administration of justice would be  brought into disrepute by the admission of the voluntary statements by the accused to his girlfriend or, under these unusual circumstances, by the admission of the murder weapon.
At the outset, it is necessary to elaborate somewhat on the circumstances  under which these two impugned pieces of evidence became available to the police, as well as the circumstances under which they were admitted at trial.
I.
Facts and Judgments
59
In October 16, 1984, 20-year-old Denean Worms was found dead in a  gravel pit in Cranbrook, B.C.
She was naked, and had been shot twice in the head at  contact range by a . 410 shotgun.
Semen was found in her vagina.
On December 30,  1984, also in Cranbrook, 16-year-old Brenda Hughes was found dead in her family house, murdered in a virtually identical manner.
Terrence Burlingham was arrested on  January 1, 1985 in connection with the murder of Brenda Hughes.
He confessed that  same day to the killing of Hughes and took the police to his parents' home where a sawed-off shotgun and some pellet shells were found.
On the basis of the factual  similarities between the murders of Worms and Hughes, the officers were convinced that the appellant was also responsible for the earlier death of Worms.
Accordingly,  they continued their interrogation of the appellant.
60
Following a lengthy and manipulative interrogation of the accused, during which the  he repeatedly denied any involvement in the Worms murder, the police consulted on Friday, January 4 with Crown counsel, who authorized them to offer a "deal" to the accused.
The Crown authorized the officers to say that the Crown would accept a  guilty plea to a second degree murder charge in relation to the Worms murder if the appellant cooperated by providing them with information about the Worms murder, including the location of the weapon used.
The officers, however, misled the  appellant by indicating to him that if he cooperated, he would be charged with second degree murder.
The accused continued to resist and to insist that he wished to speak  to his lawyer.
The officers repeatedly denigrated his lawyer and persevered in trying  to convince him to accept the "deal", emphasizing that the deal was only open for the weekend.
Finally, the accused called another lawyer, and asked that lawyer if he  would act for him at trial.
The lawyer assented and advised him not to say anything  to the police.
Immediately thereafter, however, the appellant took the two  investigating officers to a bridge on the Kootenay River and pointed out where he had thrown the . 410 shotgun that had been used to kill Worms.
Later, he made several  inculpatory statements and then drove with them to the gravel pit and pointed out the spot where he had shot his victim, as well as the location where he had hidden her body.
61
A day later, a . 410 sawed-off shotgun was recovered from the river at the place which  the appellant had indicated to police.
That same day, the appellant volunteered to his  girlfriend, Judy Hall, that he had shown police the location of the gun.
In addition, in  a visit approximately two months later, in the early spring of 1985, he told Hall that he had been present during the killing, but that it was his friend, Biddlecome, who had beaten and killed Worms.
This story, however, was at least partly false because there  was no physical evidence that Worms had been beaten.
62
At trial for the murder of Worms, notwithstanding that the appellant had delivered on  his side of the "deal", the Crown nonetheless proceeded with a first degree murder charge.
Although the trial judge did not find the authorities' failure to keep their side  of the "deal" to amount to an abuse of process, he concluded that the police conduct constituted a serious violation of s. 10(b) of the Charter.
I agree with my colleague's  affirmation of this finding, as well as with his conclusion that s. 10(b) mandates that the Crown or police, when offering a plea bargain, must tender that offer either to the accused's counsel or to the accused while in the presence of his or her counsel, unless the accused has expressly waived the right to counsel.
63
As a result of finding the s. 10(b) violation, the trial judge excluded all of the accused's  inculpatory statements to police, as well as the evidence that the accused had pointed the police to the murder weapon and to the site of the murder.
Had this been the end  of the story, then it follows that the Crown would not have been able to introduce into evidence the actual gun, or the evidence of Lewis' and Biddlecome's identifying that gun, unless the Crown were able to point to a sufficient nexus between the accused and the gun that would have made the gun relevant to the trial.
Without such  a nexus, the gun would just be a gun found in a river, and would not be probative of any material issue at trial.
Unfortunately for the appellant, however, the story does  not end here.
Instead, the day after cooperating with the police, he volunteered to his  girlfriend, Judy Hall, that he had indicated the location of the gun to the police.
In a  voir dire, the trial judge found this statement to be admissible at trial, and consequently found the fact of the finding of the gun, as well as the gun itself, to be admissible into evidence on the basis of that statement.
64
The appellant appealed to the British Columbia Court of Appeal on numerous  grounds, including the correctness of the trial judge's ruling as to abuse of process, the admission into evidence of the accused's voluntary statement on January 5 to Hall, as well as the admission into evidence of the finding of the gun and the gun itself.
Southin and Cumming JJ.A. dismissed the appellant's appeal.
McEachern C.J.,  in  dissent, would have excluded all of the derivative evidence flowing from the s. 10(b) violation on the basis that its admission would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
II.
Analysis
65
My colleague would favour excluding this evidence under s. 24(2) on the basis that  "but for" the s. 10(b) violation, the police clearly would not have found the murder weapon.
He further concludes that the statement to Hall, though voluntary and not to  a person in authority, and though not necessarily "caused" directly by the Charter breach, must nonetheless also be excluded under s. 24(2) because it was proximately connected to the Charter breach.
With respect, I disagree.
In order to explain the  basis for my disagreement, however, it is necessary to re-examine the language, spirit and purpose of s. 24(2) of the Charter, as well as the approach to that section as originally set out in R. v. Collins, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 265, and elaborated upon in subsequent jurisprudence.
1.
Section 24(2) of the Charter
66
Section 24 of the Charter reads:
24.
(1)
Anyone whose rights or freedoms, as guaranteed by this  Charter, have been infringed or denied may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to obtain such remedy as the court considers appropriate and just in the circumstances.
(2)
Where, in proceedings under subsection (1), a court concludes that  evidence was obtained in a manner that infringed or denied any rights or freedoms guaranteed by this Charter, the evidence shall be excluded if it is established that, having regard to all the circumstances, the admission of it in the proceedings would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
Many, if not most, judicial guidelines to the purpose and interpretation of s. 24(2) of  the Charter, and in particular the meaning of the phrase "bring the administration of justice into disrepute", originate in this Court's decision in Collins.
It is to that  decision that I therefore turn in order to revisit the first principles that underlie this section of our Charter, and to question whether the course that this Court has since steered in subsequent jurisprudence remains true to the language, spirit and purpose of s. 24(2).
(i)
The First Principles of Section 24(2) Set Down in R. v. Collins
67
In Collins, a police officer approached a suspect in a pub and seized her in a "throat  hold" used to prevent individuals from swallowing drugs.
At the same time, he  directed her to let go of an object in her hand which turned out to be a balloon carrying heroin.
Although the trial judge found that the officer did not have the requisite  reasonable and probable grounds for the search, the evidence was nonetheless admitted under s. 24(2) and the accused was convicted.
This Court found the trial  judge's determination on the reasonableness of the search to be defective because the evidential basis for the officer's suspicion was not admitted as a result of a spurious objection by defence counsel.
Lamer J. (as he then was), for the majority, then went  on to examine whether the evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2).
68
Lamer J. began his analysis of s. 24(2) by expressing general agreement, at p. 275,  with the following principles governing the interpretation of s. 24(2), as summarized by Seaton J.A. in the British Columbia Court of Appeal:
- It is not open to the courts in Canada to exclude evidence to discipline the police, but only to avoid having the administration of justice brought into disrepute.
- It is the admission, not the obtaining, that is the focus of the attention under our s. 24(2), though the manner of obtaining the evidence is obviously one of the circumstances.
- Evidence improperly obtained is prima facie admissible.
The onus is on  the person who wishes the evidence excluded to establish the further ingredient: that the admission of the evidence would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
- Section 24(2) does not confer a discretion on the judge but a duty to admit or exclude as a result of his finding.
In what most would agree is the quintessential pronouncement on s. 24(2), Lamer J.  then gave form and substance to several of these principles, at pp. 280-81:
Misconduct by the police in the investigatory process often has some  effect on the repute of the administration of justice, but s. 24(2) is not a remedy for police misconduct, requiring the exclusion of the evidence if, because of this misconduct, the administration of justice was brought into disrepute.
Section 24(2) could well have been drafted in that way, but it  was not.
Rather, the drafters of the Charter decided to focus on the  admission of the evidence in the proceedings, and the purpose of s. 24(2) is to prevent having the administration of justice brought into further disrepute [emphasis in original] by the admission of the evidence in the proceedings.
This further disrepute will result from the admission of  evidence that would deprive the accused of a fair hearing, or from judicial condonation of unacceptable conduct by the investigatory and prosecutorial agencies.
It will also be necessary to consider any disrepute  that may result from the exclusion of the evidence.
It would be  inconsistent with the purpose of s. 24(2) to exclude evidence if its exclusion would bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute than would its admission.
Finally, it must be emphasized that even  though the inquiry under s. 24(2) will necessarily focus on the specific prosecution, it is the long-term consequences of regular admission or exclusion of this type of evidence on the repute of the administration of justice which must be considered. . . .
[Emphasis added.]
This passage expanded upon what was meant by the phrase "bring the administration  of justice into disrepute".
More importantly, these remarks laid the rationale upon  which Lamer J. discussed the three categories of factors that are relevant to determinations under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
His concerns over the use of evidence  that would deprive the accused of a fair hearing manifested themselves in the first category: "factors touching upon the fairness of the trial".
His concerns over the  judicial condonation of unacceptable conduct found expression through the second category: "factors touching upon the seriousness of the violation".
Finally, his  concerns over remaining true to the underlying purpose of s. 24(2) of the Charter found form in the third category: "factors governing the effect of excluding the evidence".
69
Lamer J. then noted that the fairness of trials is both a constitutionally protected right  and a major source of repute of the judicial system.
He therefore concluded that  where the admission of the evidence would result in an unfair trial, then the admission of the evidence would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
In my  view, this conclusion, as well as the three categories of factors outlined in Collins, is completely consistent with s. 24(2)'s purpose of maintaining the integrity of the judicial system.
70
Another significant aspect of the approach set out in Collins, was the fact that the  threshold for exclusion under s. 24(2) was intentionally set lower than the pre- Charter "community shock test" set out in Rothman v. The Queen, [1981] 1 S.C.R. 640.
Although Lamer J. justified this lower threshold in part on the fact that  violations of the Constitution should be subject to greater scrutiny than "dirty tricks" under the common law, he expounded in some detail upon a second rationale which bears recalling.
Namely, he observed that while both the English text of s. 24(2) and  the language used by this Court in Rothman use the words "would bring the administration of justice into disrepute", the French version of s. 24(2) provides that evidence shall be excluded that "could bring the administration of justice into disrepute".
He then chose the French text as the version that was more suited to  protecting the right of the accused to a fair trial.
Consequently, the origins of the  Collins test, as well as the availability of a remedy in s. 24(2), is actually tied to the French text rather than to the English text.
Evidence shall be excluded under s. 24(2)  whenever its admission could bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
I will  return to this matter later, for it is significant when considering the interaction between s. 24(2) of the Charter and the curative proviso in s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Code, R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46.
71
Most significant of all, however, Lamer J. drew upon (at p. 282) Professor Yves- Marie Morissette's influential article "The Exclusion of Evidence under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms: What to Do and What Not to Do" (1984), 29 McGill L.J. 521, to characterize the determination that lies at the heart of s. 24(2):

"Would the admission of the evidence bring the administration of justice  into disrepute in the eyes of the reasonable man, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances of the case?"
The reasonable person is  usually the average person in the community, but only when that community's current mood is reasonable.
It is manifestly clear that s. 24(2) was not to be apprised according to the views of the  reasonable lawyer, but simply according to the reasonable person, so long as he was "dispassionate and fully informed of the circumstances".
This standard sets the ideal  towards which all applications of s. 24(2) must strive.
72
The remedial role of s. 24(2) is very different from the rights and freedoms set down  elsewhere in the Charter.
The Charter imposes upon Canadian courts the duty to  preserve and protect the rights of the individual as guaranteed in the Charter.
These  rights find their most unequivocal vindication through s. 24(1) of the Charter and s. 52(1) of the Constitution Act, 1982.
Notably, however, our Constitution addresses  the exclusion of evidence with particularity, and entrenches in s. 24(2) a quintessentially Canadian compromise.
Section 24(2) confers directly upon courts  the responsibility to preserve and protect the integrity and repute of the judicial system.
The vindication of rights, though important, is ultimately only one factor to  be considered in a more complex constitutional equation.
Though there will be many  occasions when the courts' duties under s. 24(2) complement the courts' responsibility to give the fullest possible effect to the individual rights and freedoms guaranteed under the Charter, there may be other occasions when these two duties conflict.
On those occasions, s. 24(2) makes it clear that the courts' primary concern  must lie in maintaining the integrity and legitimacy of the judicial system in the eyes of the Canadian community, assuming that community to be reasonable, dispassionate, and fully apprised of the circumstances.
Section 24(2) serves to ensure  that, in the application and enforcement of our laws, our constitutional values neither run too far ahead nor lag too far behind our basic values as a society.
One of its  purposes is therefore to ensure that the institution charged with upholding those fundamental values does not lose legitimacy in the eyes of those whose values it is entrusted to protect.
73
Given the role of s. 24(2) of the Charter, it is just as important that we remain faithful  to the spirit and purpose of this remedial provision as it is to remain consistent with the purpose of the individual rights and freedoms guaranteed within the Charter.
Although the balance can sometimes be a difficult one, it is not one which the court  can avoid.
Academic commentary such as that of Professor David M. Paciocco, in  "The Judicial Repeal of s. 24(2) and the Development of the Canadian Exclusionary Rule" (1990), 32 Crim. L.Q. 326, at pp. 341-43, suggests that this Court's evolving jurisprudence on s. 24(2) has failed to effect this balance, and has therefore been unfaithful to its constitutional mandate under that section:

As a matter of construction, s. 24(2) decidedly focuses on the ... imperative of judicial integrity, the maintenance of popular trust in the  judicial branch of government.
The phrase states that the concern is with  whether the admission of the evidence would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
Disrepute has to do with reputation and reputation  has to do with what others think of you, not with what standards you would like to emulate.
If one was to boil all of this down into simple  terms and to appreciate it in its historical context, one would be driven to conclude that the framers of the Charter were attempting to fashion a cautious exclusionary rule where evidence would be refused only in relatively extreme cases;
after all, there were no signs at the time that s.  24(2) was drafted that the administration of justice was suffering disrepute as a result of a long-standing position that the method of obtainment was irrelevant to the admissibility of probative evidence.
Despite this, the Supreme Court of Canada has fashioned what has  proved, in at least a wide spectrum of cases, to be an extremely aggressive exclusionary remedy.
It set the stage for doing so by leaving the partially  implicit but unmistakable message that s. 24(2) should be understood as though it was intended to preserve judicial integrity, regardless of the impact of exclusion on the reputation of the judicial branch.
...
In essence, all of this means that judges in applying s. 24(2) of the Charter  have a luxury that is not available elsewhere;
they themselves get to define  what conduct of theirs will bring them into disrepute.
In so holding the  court has done more than a little violence to the concept of disrepute.
[Emphasis by underlining added.]
74
I note, as well, the findings of carefully conducted surveys which suggest that,  although the Canadian public shares this Court's views as to what factors are important in the exclusion of evidence under s. 24(2), there is a material gap between public opinion and this Court regarding how those factors would be applied:
see A.  W. Bryant, M. Gold, H. M. Stevenson and D. Northrup, "Public Attitudes Toward the Exclusion of Evidence: Section 24(2) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms" (1990), 69 Can. Bar Rev. 1, and "Public Support for the Exclusion of Unconstitutionally Obtained Evidence" (1990), 1 S.C.L.R. (2d) 555.
On one hand, I  am in basic agreement with the concern expressed in Collins, at p. 282, that "[t]he Charter is designed to protect the accused from the majority, so the enforcement of the Charter must not be left to that majority".
I am also sensitive to the fact that  public opinion surveys, no matter how carefully culled, are rarely without their weaknesses.
On the other hand, however, given that the express purpose of s. 24(2)  is to maintain the repute of the justice system, I believe that we also cannot dismiss them completely out of hand.
A periodic "reality check" is both healthy and  necessary in order to ensure that the discretion to exclude evidence under s. 24(2) is exercised in conformity with long-term community values.
75
Let me start by first acknowledging that the road upon which this Court originally  embarked was the right one.
In particular, returning to the first principles outlined in  Collins, I believe that the "reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances" would most generally agree that the administration of justice tends to be brought into disrepute when the fairness of the hearing may be undermined by the admission of unconstitutionally obtained evidence.
This hypothetical person would  also agree that, in certain cases, the conduct of the police or of the Crown may be so unacceptable that admission of evidence obtained in such a manner would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
Finally, this person would agree  that, notwithstanding these two considerations, there may still be exceptional situations in which the exclusion of the impugned evidence would bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute than its inclusion.
As such, I believe  that the "reasonable person" would approve of the three criteria set out by this Court in Collins.
In my respectful opinion, however, the hypothetical "reasonable person"  would then point to the fork in the road which has ultimately led this Court to misapply s. 24(2) -- our approach to "factors governing the fairness of the trial".
(ii)
The Fairness of the "Trial"
76
It is interesting to note, at the outset, that when Lamer J. originally set out in Collins,  at p. 281, the considerations that should animate the interpretation of s. 24(2) of the Charter, he spoke of the fairness of the hearing.
At page 284, however, he directed  his remarks not to the fairness of the hearing, but to the fairness of the trial:
The trial is a key part of the administration of justice, and the fairness of  Canadian trials is a major source of the repute of the system and is now a right guaranteed by s. 11(d) of the Charter.
If the admission of the  evidence in some way affects the fairness of the trial, then the admission of the evidence would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute and, subject to consideration of the other factors, the evidence generally should be excluded.
[Emphasis in original.]
He then went on to distinguish between the admission of evidence that was real and  that which was self-incriminatory.
In his opinion, where an accused is conscripted  against him- or herself to provide a confession or other evidence emanating from the accused, then such evidence would by definition generally affect "the very fairness of the trial", since it did not exist prior to the violation and since it strikes at one of the fundamental tenets of a fair trial, the right against self-incrimination.
At that time, Le  Dain J. wrote concurring reasons in Collins, sounding a cautionary note regarding the role of "trial fairness" in the s. 24(2) analysis.
In my respectful view, the passage of  time has borne out his concerns.
The grouping of too many factors under the rubric of  "trial fairness", the encroachment of which we are told must almost inevitably lead to exclusion of the evidence, has led this Court to depart from the first principles and underlying purposes animating s. 24(2) of the Charter.
77
This deviation has become more evident over time.
We now know that any evidence  that could not have been obtained "but for" the participation of the accused is classified as self-incriminatory in nature, and is therefore decreed to affect the fairness of the trial, and thereby most likely to require exclusion due to an application of the first branch of the Collins test:
R. v. Ross, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 3, at p. 16.
This has come  to be known in many circles as the discoverability doctrine.
Thus, in a very  significant number of cases, the multi-facetted Collins framework has been subsumed within its first branch.
78
I believe this subtle yet significant expansion of the first branch of the Collins test to  have come about as a result of an equally subtle shift in terminology.
This Court  went from speaking of the repute of the justice system being affected in terms of possible unfairness of the hearing (Collins, at p. 281), to being affected in terms of unfairness of the trial (Collins, at p. 284), to being affected in terms of unfairness of the trial process.
See, e.g., R. v. Ross; Thomson Newspapers Ltd. v. Canada (Director  of Investigation and Research, Restrictive Trade Practices Commission), [1990] 1 S.C.R. 425, per La Forest J.; R. v. Mellenthin, [1992] 3 S.C.R. 615; R. v. Prosper, [1994] 3 S.C.R 236, per Lamer C.J.
I believe Iacobucci J.'s approach in the present  case to take the definition of "trial unfairness" even one step further than ever before, moreover, by concluding as a matter of law that the "fairness of the trial" is adversely affected as a result of a "proximate connection" between the impugned evidence (i.e., the accused's voluntary statements to his girlfriend) and the s. 10(b) Charter violation.
Each time the terminology has changed, it has expanded the scope of the first branch  of the Collins analysis, and thereby increased the likelihood that virtually absolute exclusionary consequences will follow from a s. 24(2) analysis.
79
The paradigmatic shift that has resulted in the adoption of the "but for" approach to  s. 24(2) has most dramatic implications.
Its magnitude is perhaps most fully  appreciated by returning once again to the proverbial grandfather of s. 24(2) jurisprudence.
In Collins, the majority of the Court elaborated its three-part  framework in the context of an unconstitutional search of a bar patron, which resulted in the finding of a balloon of heroin clenched in her hand.
In determining whether the  heroin obtained in the illegal search should be excluded under s. 24(2), its application of the first set of factors, concerning the fairness of the trial, is most informative (at p. 288):
The evidence obtained as a result of the search was real evidence and,  while prejudicial to the accused as evidence tendered by the Crown usually is, there is nothing to suggest that its use at the trial would render the trial unfair.
[Emphasis added.]
The heroin was excluded on the basis of the second branch of the Collins test, since  the violation was both flagrant and serious, and since it was unacceptable conduct for police to take flying tackles at people, seizing them by the throat, if they did not have reasonable and probable grounds to believe that these people were dangerous or handlers of drugs.
For the Court to signal its condonation of the officer's acts by  nonetheless admitting the evidence could bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute than if the evidence were to be excluded and the accused were subsequently acquitted.
Given that the officer had not had the opportunity to explain  the basis for his search, however, a new trial was ordered, at which time the reasonable and probable grounds for the search could be properly ascertained.
80
By contrast, only five years later, in Mellenthin, this Court excluded under s. 24(2)  drugs found by an officer pursuant to a search of a car at a random roadside sobriety check.
Cory J. found the drugs to have been discovered as a result of an  unconstitutional search and concluded that "but for" this Charter violation, the drugs would never have been found.
In other words, although the drugs were real, they were  self-incriminatory in the sense that they would not have been discovered but for the rights violation.
He therefore excluded the evidence as a result of his analysis under  the first branch of Collins.
His analysis under the first branch of the Collins test  mentioned the following factors (at p. 629) as relating to the fairness of the trial:
The unreasonable search carried out in this case is the very kind  which the Court wished to make clear is unacceptable.
A check stop does  not and cannot constitute a general search warrant for searching every vehicle, driver and passenger that is pulled over.
Unless there are  reasonable and probable grounds for conducting the search, or drugs, alcohol or weapons are in plain view in the interior of the vehicle, the evidence flowing from such a search should not be admitted.
It would surely affect the fairness of the trial should check stops be  accepted as a basis for warrantless searches and the evidence derived from them was to be automatically admitted.
To admit evidence obtained in an  unreasonable and unjustified search carried out while a motorist was detained in a check stop would adversely and unfairly affect the trial process and most surely bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
[Emphasis added.]
In view of the foregoing conclusion, Cory J. thought it unnecessary to consider the  other branches of the Collins test, but nonetheless went on to conclude that the evidence should also be excluded on the basis of the second branch of the Collins test because the violation was a serious one involving unacceptable conduct which should not be condoned by the justice system.
He did not give any consideration to the third  branch of the Collins test.
81
It becomes evident how far this Court has deviated from its original approach to s.  24(2) when we transplant the "but for" standard employed in Mellenthin back to Collins.
If, in Collins, Lamer J. had approached the problem in the manner suggested  by Cory J. in Mellenthin, he should have concluded that "but for" the Charter violation, the officer would not have seized the heroin balloon from the suspect in the bar.
There was no evidence to suggest that the officer could have seized the drugs in  any other way.
Yet how is it that Lamer J. concluded for the majority in Collins that  this evidence, though prejudicial in the ordinary sense, did not render the trial unfair, and therefore did not tend to the almost automatic exclusion of the evidence?
Why  have our notions of what constitutes a "fair trial", and thereby inevitably leads to exclusion, changed so profoundly in the space of the five years between Collins and Mellenthin?
82
With great respect, I suggest that we have lost sight of the original concerns that  motivated the Court to remark that the admission of evidence affecting the fairness of the hearing would generally tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
83
In my view, the essence of those original concerns is reflected in the concurring  reasons of Lamer J. in Rothman in which he provided an important jurisprudential stepping stone between the traditional common law "voluntariness" rule and s. 24(2) of the Charter.
In the context of his discussion of the confessions rule and the power  of courts to exclude certain types of evidence, he recognized that reliability was an important consideration as to whether or not evidence should be excluded, but then went on to say that the discretion of a trial judge to exclude evidence must extend beyond that criteria.
He therefore favoured a two-step analysis. The first stage was  reliability.
Where anything done by the authorities casts some doubt as to the  accused's having been induced to make a possible unreliable statement, then that statement would be excluded.
The second component was a general discretion on the  part of the judge to exclude reliable and probative evidence where it was obtained in circumstances that threatened the integrity of the judicial system.
84
Section 24(2) of the Charter was not enacted in a vacuum.
As numerous  commentators have noted, it reflected a compromise between a Canadian common law rule which focused almost exclusively on reliability and an American exclusionary rule which focused largely on police misconduct.
It was intended as a cautious expansion  of the Canadian common law.
Many of its values are reflected in Lamer J.'s reasoning  in Rothman v. The Queen.
I will outline below why I believe that the two-part  framework outlined in Rothman v. The Queen forms the underpinnings of the approach to s. 24(2) taken by this Court in R. v. Collins.
In my view, at the heart of  R. v. Collins, building as it did on Rothman v. The Queen, is the recognition of two fundamental concerns, the encroachment of either of which could bring the administration of justice into disrepute within the meaning of s. 24(2).
85
The first basic concern groups together all of the common law and Charter  protections of the accused that ultimately relate to liberty and truth-seeking.
For the  sake of simplicity, I shall call it the "Reliability Principle".
In essence, this principle  dictates that our justice system must be constantly and intensely vigilant to ensure that innocent persons not be convicted.
Where the individual's liberty is at stake, then  these protections take on added significance and additional dimensions.
In accordance  with this principle, the trial must not amount to an attempt by the Crown to "win" its case against the accused:
see, e.g.,  R. v. Stinchcombe, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 326.
Rather,  the trial is undertaken as a truth-seeking activity, and its conduct is animated by the overarching need for the accurate determination of innocence or guilt.
As such, the  trial itself must be conducted so as to maximize the accuracy of the outcome and minimize the possibility of wrongful conviction.
Evidence that may be unreliable or  that has the potential to mislead a trier of fact is at the heart of this concern, and will generally be excluded.
Accordingly, under the Reliability Principle, the use at trial of  evidence, obtained in a manner that violated the Charter, that may mislead the trier of fact could render that trial unfair, and could bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of the reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
In other words, where the unfairness flowing from the Charter  violation may touch in any way upon the actual adjudicative process, then this kind of evidence must almost inevitably be excluded.
86
The second basic concern relates to life, security of the person and, within  that same rubric, fundamental human dignity.
For the sake of convenience, I shall  refer to this principle as the "Fairness Principle".
This principle groups together all of  the common law and Charter protections that breathe life into the notion that the individual should be free from unwarranted interference with the state.
In essence, it  recognizes the vital importance in ensuring that the state treat each individual in accordance with basic principles of decency and fair play.
Failure to treat the  individual in such a manner is offensive both to our common law and to our Charter.
Unlike the first concern, however, this concern does not relate to notions of reliability  and potential for prejudice, or to the possible conviction of innocent persons.
Rather,  it acknowledges that the use of certain methods to build a case against an individual denigrates the values and mores which we consider fundamental to a free and democratic Canadian society.
It recognizes that these methods undermine our social  fabric.
It recognizes that these costs are endured over the long-term, that they are  ultimately borne by all within society, and that they considerably outweigh any benefit to society gained by conviction of an individual accused.
For this reason,  judicial condonation of acts that violate this principle will also tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of a reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
87
These two fundamental concerns reflect, in my view, the "principles underlying the  principles".
They have found expression in such varied forms as the presumption of  innocence, the right to silence, the principle against self-incrimination, the doctrine of abuse of process, and a whole host of other protections under the common law and Charter.
(See R. v. S. (R.J.), [1995] 1 S.C.R. 451, per L'Heureux-Dube J.)
Those  protections, and many others, have developed over the ages within our common law and most recently within our Charter as methods of giving substance and meaning to these two most fundamental of principles.
In my view, it is most consistent with the  goals of s. 24(2), as well as with the courts' duty to guard jealously the reputation of our system of justice, to build an analytical framework that encourages consideration of those two most fundamental of principles.
88
In my opinion, evidence is capable of affecting "trial fairness", as that term is  employed in the first branch of R. v. Collins, where its admission could give rise to concerns analogous to, or falling within, the rubric of the Reliability Principle, outlined above.
Where, by contrast, the complaint about the impugned evidence is, for  instance, that it would not have been obtained "but for" the rights violation, then this complaint relates more fundamentally to the Fairness Principle.
The objection to the  admission of the evidence is not that it has the potential to mislead a trier of fact or convict an innocent person, but rather that the manner in which the authorities obtained the evidence was fundamentally unfair, and erodes values that are fundamental to our society.
I therefore believe that the fact that the evidence could  not have been obtained "but for" the rights violation is more accurately viewed as a relevant consideration to the second branch of the Collins framework: the impact of the seriousness of the rights violation on the reputation of the justice system.
I shall  return to this matter shortly.
89
To summarize, given that this Court uses "trial fairness" within s. 24(2) as a proxy for  circumstances in which the administration of justice is almost inevitably brought into disrepute, and where any other mitigating considerations or circumstances are virtually irrelevant, I believe that it is most consistent with the purpose and spirit of s. 24(2) to define that category of factors narrowly.
In my respectful view, it runs  counter to the inherently discretionary nature of a s. 24(2) determination, which is to be made "having regard to all of the circumstances", to formulate rigid rules or presumptions for the exclusion or admission of different kinds of evidence.
Thus, to  the extent that this Court decides to set down such a rule in regard to "trial fairness", I believe that it should take care not to define that concept so broadly as to allow the "trial fairness" tail to wag the s. 24(2) dog.
90
Classifying evidence as "self-incriminatory" or "real", or "discoverable" or "not  discoverable" is not, nor should it be, an end in itself.
For this reason, I have  considerable sympathy for the following observations of Professor David M. Paciocco in "The Judicial Repeal of s. 24(2) and the Development of the Canadian Exclusionary Rule", supra, at pp. 353-54:

The whole historical development of s. 24(2) drives home the point  that it was intended to be a compromise between what is typically but inaccurately characterized as the automatic exclusionary rule in the United States, and the traditional common law Canadian position whereby evidence is admissible if relevant and material, regardless of how it was obtained.
Out of distaste and distrust for the American regime the first  public draft of the Charter had provided expressly that no exclusionary remedy could be developed to enforce the Charter.
Strong submissions  against this position were made by various public-interest groups who favoured an exclusionary rule.
Ultimately, s. 24(2) was adopted as a  compromise position.
It promised to be a provision which answered the  most common objection to having an exclusionary enforcement mechanism, that requiring the exclusion of unconstitutionally obtained evidence may provide disproportionate relief to accused persons;
serious  offenders may be acquitted because of constitutional violations which are not nearly as shocking or outrageous as the crime shown by the evidence to have been committed.
The rejection of the polar extremes has been drafted into the  provision.
The section requires courts to determine whether admission of  the evidence in question could cause the relevant kind of disrepute, "having regard to all of the circumstances".
The spirit of the provision, if  not that very language, calls into question the legitimacy of developing even quasi-automatic principles for exclusion.
Despite this, the court has  produced just such a principle, and its implications are enormous.
[Emphasis added.]
91
Kerans J.A. in his thoughtful discussion of s. 24(2) in R. v. Meddoui (1990), 61  C.C.C. (3d) 345 (Alta. C.A.), at p. 367, raised comparable concerns:

Perhaps mistakenly, I have dealt with the issue of discoverability as  one that arises under the "fairness" rule in Collins, supra.
If one labels the  trial as unfair, one leaves little scope for review of factors that might argue against exclusion, like a minimal breach, urgency, and the like.
One might  be forced to say something silly like this:
the trial was unfair, but the  administration of justice was not placed in disrepute.
I do not object to a  categorization of the advantage, in an abstract sense, as "unfair" so long as one keeps in mind that s. 24 refuses to accept that it is always unfair.
The reference to the reputation of the administration of justice in s. 24, as  all agree, can have no sense other than that, in the concrete, any unfairness to the accused might in some cases be overborn by other factors.
A  balancing must occur.
[Emphasis added.]
I reached a similar conclusion in R. v. Dersch, [1993] 3 S.C.R. 768, at p. 784.
Unfairness in the manner certain evidence was obtained, or in the fact that certain  evidence was obtained, does not necessarily render the trial unfair.
We must therefore  be circumspect in defining what type of evidence, or what circumstances, will inevitably lead to exclusion under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
92
There is an important lesson to be learned from the difficulties encountered south of  our border.
I cannot help but reflect upon the irony of the fact that in Collins, at p.  275, the majority of this Court "unconditionally endorsed" Seaton J.A.'s review in Collins (1983), 5 C.C.C. (3d) 141 (B.C.C.A.), at pp. 151-54, of the unfortunate U.S. experience with a rigid exclusionary rule.
In that review, Seaton J.A. noted that  American courts, in order to lessen the impact of their exclusionary rule, have found more and more searches to be lawful, and more and more evidence-giving situations to be outside the scope of the rule.
Professor Paciocco, in "The Judicial Repeal of s.  24(2) and the Development of the Canadian Exclusionary Rule", supra, at pp. 360-61, has noted what is perhaps the beginning of a similar trend in Canada, in cases such as R. v. Duarte, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 30, and R. v. Wiggins, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 62.
(iii)
Returning to the Collins Framework and to First Principles
93
As I have said earlier, I am convinced that the reasonable person, dispassionate and  fully apprised of the circumstances, would approve of the basic framework set out in Collins.
Rather than set out any rigid legal "test", however, I prefer to revitalize the  approach taken in Collins, and to provide a non-exhaustive list of factors which should be considered in the course of a s. 24(2) determination, as well as a basic analytical framework according to which those considerations may be structured.
I  start, as well, with the basic premise, approved in Collins, at p. 275, that evidence obtained in an unconstitutional manner is prima facie admissible until the accused demonstrates that its admission could bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
94
As I have already mentioned, the first set of factors relates to the exclusion of  evidence which may offend the Reliability Principle.
Where anything done by the  authorities casts some doubt as to the accused's having been induced to make a possibly unreliable statement, then the evidence obtained under such circumstances touches upon the Reliability Principle.
This set of factors relates to any  circumstances under which a person may be convicted of an offence of which he or she is innocent.
As such, they relate to the fairness of the trial and its corollary, the  right to make full answer and defence.
The admission of unconstitutionally obtained  evidence which may render the trial unfair in this manner could bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of a reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
95
Such evidence should almost inevitably be excluded, although consideration should  still be had of the other two branches of the Collins test.
Where a risk of unfairness in  the actual trial is identified, considerations relating to the second branch of the Collins framework, the seriousness of the violation, will generally only aggravate, rather than palliate, the potential for disrepute to the justice system flowing from the admission of the impugned evidence.
Moreover, where the admission of the evidence could give  rise to concerns relating to the fairness of the trial, then I would agree in principle with the observation in Collins, at p. 286, that the disrepute arising from the admission of the impugned evidence will be greater if the offence is more serious.
96
The second category of factors in our s. 24(2) framework relates to the impact of the  seriousness of the rights violation on the reputation of the justice system.
The  concerns grouped within this general rubric include all those potentially infringing the Fairness Principle.
97
Within this rubric, considerable regard should be had to the potential long-term effect  on the reputation of the justice system of judicial condonation of the kind of behaviour engaged in by the authorities.
In Collins, for instance, it was noted at p.  288 that
we cannot accept that police officers take flying tackles at people and  seize them by the throat when they do not have reasonable and probable grounds to believe that those people are either dangerous or handlers of drugs.
Similarly, in Mellenthin, albeit as part of his discussion of "trial fairness" under the  first branch of the Collins test, Cory J. took great exception to the possibility that police could, without reasonable and probable grounds to believe that they would find anything, simply search a vehicle which they had stopped for the altogether different purpose of a routine sobriety check.
If both Collins and Mellenthin recognize that  over the long-term this kind of activity by state actors affects the rights of all Canadians, then it constitutes a fundamental and important infringement of the right of ordinary citizens to be free from unwarranted interference by the state.
For the  justice system to condone such intrusive activity by nonetheless admitting the fruits of such searches into evidence could therefore, absent other circumstances, bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of the reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised.
98
Other factors that have been identified as relevant to the question of the seriousness  of the violation relate more closely to the particular circumstances surrounding the impugned violation.
Did the violation occur in circumstances of urgency or necessity?
Was the conduct that led to the violation of the Charter wilful or flagrant, or was the  violation inadvertent or committed in good faith?
In this respect, since the accused is  not generally in a position to demonstrate the officer's mala fides, it is reasonable that an accused need only point to conduct which plausibly indicates bad faith before the onus shifts as a practical matter to the Crown to demonstrate the good faith of the officers involved.
99
Another important consideration, as I have already noted, is whether the impugned  evidence would likely have been obtained in any event, or whether the evidence could not have been obtained but for the violation.
Where the impugned evidence could not  have been obtained "but for" the rights violation, then this undoubtedly visits an unfairness upon the accused.
With great respect, however, I would not go so far as  my colleagues as to say that such evidence must therefore almost inevitably be excluded.
In my view, discoverability is an important, albeit not determinative, factor  in considering how the seriousness of the rights violation will affect the reputation of the justice system, as measured by the long-term values of the community.
We must  always bear in mind that the language of s. 24(2) clearly requires that the court's inquiry be conducted "having regard to all the circumstances".
100
The third branch of the Collins test need only be broached if the judge has concluded  that evidence should tend to be excluded on the basis of analysis conducted within the framework of one or both of the first two branches.
This branch, we must recall, is a  safeguard which verifies that s. 24(2) is not being applied in such a way as to frustrate its own underlying purposes.
One factor that may be relevant to an analysis  conducted under this branch may be the extent to which the evidence is essential to substantiate the charge.
As noted in Collins, at p. 288, the exclusion of otherwise  reliable evidence necessary to support a conviction for a serious crime may, itself, tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
101
It should be noted that rigid tests of inclusion should be opposed just as vigorously as  rigid tests of exclusion.
What must ultimately be sought within a s. 24(2) analysis is a  sense of proportionality between competing interests and effects.
In Collins, at p.  286, for instance, such proportionality found form through the following observation:
In my view, the administration of justice would be brought into disrepute  by the exclusion of evidence essential to substantiate the charge, and thus the acquittal of the accused, because of a trivial breach of the Charter.
Implicit in the third branch of the Collins test, in my view, is an inquiry into whether  the value to society of admitting the evidence outweighs the prejudice to societal and individual interests that could follow from the admission of the evidence.
102
Assessing proportionality may have opposite effects depending upon whether the  admission of the evidence touches upon the Reliability Principle or the "Fairness Principle".
If the evidence relates to the Fairness Principle, then the higher the value  to society in obtaining the conviction, the more serious must be the rights violation before the admission of the evidence could be said to bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
On the other hand, if the evidence relates to the Reliability  Principle, then the relationship may be quite the opposite.
The more serious the  offence, then the greater the need for the courts to be vigilant in ensuring that the innocent are not convicted.
As such, the more serious the offence, the higher the  likelihood that the inclusion of the evidence impugning trial fairness could bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
103
Finally, although I do not wish to resurrect the pre-Charter "community shock test"  elaborated in Rothman, I think that it may offer a helpful standard in an opposite sense.
Namely, having regard to all of the circumstances, would the long-term values  of the community, assuming it to be reasonable, dispassionate and fully informed, be shocked by the exclusion of this evidence?
This factor is essentially a reality check.
It is one last safeguard to ensure that courts do not lose sight of the forest for the  trees, or abstract the law from reality.
Courts must not frustrate the very purposes of  s. 24(2) that they are duty-bound under the Constitution to uphold.
104
We must always bear in mind, as Collins has clearly enunciated, that the purpose of s.  24(2) is not to discipline the authorities.
Nor, for that matter, is the primary purpose  of s. 24(2) even to seek to discourage certain types of behaviour by state actors, although this will certainly be one of its effects.
Simply put, the purpose of s. 24(2)  is to prevent the administration of justice from being brought into further disrepute by the admission of evidence obtained in a manner that violates the Charter.
Although I  decline to comment further on this matter, I would simply note that there may be other means, either statutory or common law, by which to further more directly the purpose of discouraging or sanctioning unconstitutional conduct by state actors.
(See,  e.g.,  1983 of the United States Code, which recognizes a tort for breach of an individual's civil rights.)
105
I have set out above what I believe to be the first principles and purposes underlying  s. 24(2) of the Charter, which I believe found much of their genesis in The Queen, and which were given form by this Court in Collins.
I believe that this Court's  jurisprudence regarding s. 24(2) has perhaps inadvertently departed from the purpose of s. 24(2) of the Charter, and from the foundations laid down in those cases.
By  including too many factors within the rubric of "trial fairness", we have transformed s. 24(2) from a supple analytical framework within which could be balanced a multiplicity of factors into a fairly rigid test of exclusion that, with each passing day, bears increasing resemblance to the American model that the framers of our Charter so consciously eschewed.
Summary
106
To summarize briefly, giving effect to s. 24(2) requires courts to adopt a somewhat  different focus than what is necessary to give effect to the substantive rights and freedoms guaranteed within the Charter.
Whereas recognition of these substantive  rights and freedoms must be done with primary regard to ensuring that every individual obtains the fullest protection possible under these rights, s. 24(2) mandates that courts adjudicate upon the admissibility of evidence with primary regard to preventing the administration of justice from being brought into disrepute.
Whereas  rights and freedoms must therefore be given expression through the eyes of one trained in the law, s. 24(2), which deals with the reputation of the justice system, must be approached from the point of view of the reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
With great respect, I believe that this  Court's recent jurisprudence governing s. 24(2) does not take this differing focus sufficiently into account.
107
Since writing these reasons, I have had the advantage of reading the reasons of Justice  Sopinka.
I take great exception to his implication that I am in any way advocating an  approach to exclusion of evidence that is reminiscent of this Court's judgment in R. v. Wray, [1971] S.C.R. 272.
In fact, the approach I suggest, which looks both to  reliability and to the integrity of the judicial system, finds its genesis in Lamer J.'s influential remarks in Rothman, its inspiration in the wording and historical context of s. 24(2) of the Charter, and its application in this Court's approach in Collins.
Although it bespeaks the obvious, I must emphasize that a court's inquiry into  exclusion does not end when it finds that unconstitutionally obtained evidence is inherently reliable (and therefore not subject to virtually automatic exclusion).
Analysis then passes on to a consideration of the damage to the integrity of the  system that could be occasioned by the admission of the impugned evidence.
This  must be approached from the point of the long-term effects on the community of the admission of evidence obtained under similar circumstances.
The likelihood of  exclusion under this framework therefore goes far beyond anything that ever existed at common law, particularly since evidence will be excluded whenever its admission could bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
108
The thrust of my criticism of this Court's recent jurisprudence on s. 24(2) is that we  may be digging ourselves into a hole.
If we are to create a test of absolute exclusion to  further the purposes of s. 24(2), then I believe that we must not define that test so broadly as to risk frustrating the text of s. 24(2), which calls upon courts to evaluate "all of the circumstances" in preserving the reputation of the justice system.
I  therefore prefer to formulate any absolute exclusionary rules more narrowly than most of my colleagues.
109
In my view, it is most consistent both with our common law approach to exclusion  and with the purposes of s. 24(2) of the Charter to confine an absolute exclusionary rule to circumstances in which the unconstitutional conduct of state authorities is responsible for evidence which may possibly be unreliable.
I do not feel that the  nature of the evidence (real vs. self-incriminatory, or discoverable vs. undiscoverable) should be determinative of absolute exclusion.
For my part, I believe that a viable  distinction can and must be drawn between evidence whose admission potentially touches upon the adjudicative fairness of the hearing and evidence which is obtained in a manner which does violence to the integrity of the judicial system.
Whereas the  former must almost inevitably be excluded, the latter must be evaluated "having regard to all of the circumstances".
110
My colleague Sopinka J. notes that Lamer J. did not specifically mention reliability in  his discussion of trial fairness.
I agree.
For this, one must go back to Rothman, the  grandfather of Collins.
I do not believe that our concept of what constitutes a minimal  standard of "trial fairness" has changed so dramatically since the Charter.
The justice  system was not suffering from widespread disrepute as a result of "unfair trials" when s. 24(2) came onto the scene.
111
Finally, Sopinka J. concludes by opining that the majority's approach to s. 24(2) is  more consistent with Collins than the framework I propose.
In answer, I repeat the  following rhetorical question that I have already asked about Collins:
given that the  heroin balloon could not have been recovered "but for" the unreasonable search by the officer, why did this Court nonetheless conclude that, although the admission of the evidence would operate unfortunately for the accused, the "fairness of the trial" was in no way implicated?
I find further support, moreover, in my rejection of using  discoverability as a proxy for trial fairness in the following excerpt from J. Sopinka, S. N. Lederman and A. W. Bryant, The Law of Evidence in Canada (1992), at p. 407:

[The] disposition [in R. v. Black, [1992] 2 S.C.R. 138] leaves open  the question whether real evidence obtained as a consequence of a s. 10(b) violation, but which would not have been discovered but for the violation, can be characterized as falling within the trial fairness rationale for exclusion
In light of the strong indications in Collins and Ross, it is  difficult to see how real evidence, no matter how obtained, could be said to affect the fairness of the trial.
The better view seems to be that the  admission of real evidence (i.e., tangible evidence not created by the accused as a consequence of a Charter violation) must stand or fall on the basis of the seriousness of the Charter violation by which it was obtained.
[Emphasis added.]
I rest my case.
(iv)
Application of Section 24(2) to the Impugned Evidence
112
At the outset, it is important to recall that no appeal is taken by the Crown from the  trial judge's decision to exclude, on the basis of a serious s. 10(b) violation, the compelled confessions as well as the fact that the appellant led police to the location of the murder weapon and to the site of the murder.
I will not comment further on the  exclusion of those two pieces of evidence under s. 24(2) except to say that I agree that, under the circumstances, their admission could bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute than their exclusion.
As I have already noted, had this been the  only evidence indicating a nexus between the accused and the gun found in the river, then the exclusion of this evidence would in all likelihood have also precluded the Crown from pointing to any basis for admitting into evidence the gun itself, or the fact of its finding.
Simply put, the Crown would not have been able to show that the gun  found in the river was at all relevant to the proceedings.
The effect of excluding the  other evidence would therefore be to exclude the gun itself, as well as the fact of its finding.
113
I turn to the accused's statement to Hall.
My colleague Iacobucci J. would focus his s.  24(2) analysis primarily on the gun and the fact of its finding.
I respectfully disagree.
The gun and the fact of its finding are meaningless and, in fact, inadmissible without  evidence that connects them somehow to the accused.
The accused's voluntary  statement to Hall is the only basis for their admission.
By contrast, even if the gun  had not been found or introduced at trial, the statement was, by itself, extremely incriminating, since it constituted a voluntary admission to a third party which indicated involvement in the crime.
Thus, I have no doubt that the proper focus of  our analysis must be on the statement made to Hall.
114
My colleague would exclude this statement on the basis that it is proximately  connected to the s. 10(b) violation and that its admission would therefore tend to render the trial unfair.
He relies for this proposition on this Court's judgment in R. v.  Strachan, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 980.
With respect, I do not believe that Strachan supports  such an approach.
115
Strachan stands for the proposition that the accused need not show a strict causal link  between the s. 10(b) violation and the statement to Hall.
The accused can bring the  statement to Hall within the ambit of a s. 24(2) examination so long as he can demonstrate that the statement was not too remote from the rights violation.
(By  way of aside, I note that there was never any challenge raised as to the admissibility of a statement made by the accused to Hall some two months later, alleging that he had been present at the killing but that it had been committed by Biddlecome.)
I must  respectfully disagree, however, with my colleague's conclusion that principles of remoteness should also predispose this Court's determination on whether the fairness of the trial is adversely affected.
Whereas I take Strachan to govern the applicability  of s. 24(2), my colleague takes Strachan one step further, and extends its logic of "proximate connection" to the application of the first branch of the s. 24(2) Collins test.
With respect, given the almost automatic exclusionary consequences of a finding  of "trial process unfairness", I fear that this approach will dig this Court even more deeply into the legal hole that I believe it has already dug itself.
116
In my opinion, the "proximate connection" between the s. 10(b) violation and the  accused's voluntary statement to Hall is sufficient to bring that statement within the purview of a s. 24(2) examination:
R. v. Strachan.
I note, however, that although the  accused was incarcerated at the time, the statement to Hall was freely and voluntarily made.
No element of state compulsion could have operated upon his mind at that  time so as to taint that statement with the possibility of unreliability, and therefore with the possibility of unfairness to the trial.
Thus, although the evidence is highly  incriminating to the accused, and therefore prejudicial in the sense that it increases materially the likelihood of his conviction, I do not see how it touches in any way upon the Reliability Principle, and therefore upon trial fairness.
117
I next turn to the second branch of the Collins framework, to ascertain whether the  method by which this statement was obtained raises sufficient concerns under the Fairness Principle that its admission into evidence could bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
118
In my view, accepting this statement into evidence would not send a signal to the  community condoning this kind of conduct by state actors.
We must recall that both  the confession and the totality of the self-incriminating evidence emanating from the accused while acting under state compulsion were excluded by the trial judge.
In this  case, however, the state obtained an unanticipated windfall as a result of the accused's voluntary remarks to his girlfriend.
This windfall cannot realistically be said to have  been part of the officers' scheme at the time the "deal" was hatched.
In this sense, the  present case is different in important respects from instances in which the state actively seeks to elicit incriminatory statements from the accused through the use of undercover agents (R. v. Hebert, [1990] 2 S.C.R. 151) or through individuals effectively acting as agents of the state (R. v. Broyles, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 595).
In both  of those types of situations, the court is faced with evidence arising as a direct result of an unconstitutional scheme on the part of the authorities, and obtained in the manner reasonably anticipated by the police.
The judicial sanction of such  unconstitutional activity by admitting evidence thus obtained can have significant repercussions in the long-term on citizens' dignity and right generally to be free from unwarranted interference from the state.
Admission of evidence under such  circumstances could bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of the reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
119
By contrast, in the present case, the direct and intended fruits of the state's  unconstitutional conduct were properly excluded by the trial judge.
All that remained  was a voluntary statement-- an evidentiary windfall.
It would be largely speculative  to guess at whether the accused would not have made such a statement, or any other incriminating statement, to Hall if the circumstances had been different.
I note, for  instance, that he made another highly incriminating statement to Hall some two months later.
I am willing to accept, however, that this statement may not have been  available had the rights violation not occurred.
In fact, I agree with my colleague  Iacobucci J.'s observation at para. 42 of his reasons that
[t]he fact is that the Crown sought to introduce the statement at trial  precisely because it allowed it to do indirectly what the trial judge had ruled the Crown could not do directly: introduce evidence that the appellant knew where the gun was hidden.
In my view, however, the long-term interests in the administration of justice and in  the integrity of the Fairness Principle would not be disserved by admitting this evidence, notwithstanding the insalubrious police conduct that may have, as its incidental effect, prompted the statement to Hall.
120
I am, as I have said, mindful of the unfairness that flows from admitting a statement  that may not have been made were it not for the Charter violation.
Indeed, it is true  that the accused made the statement to his girlfriend while he was still under the impression that the "deal" was on.
As I have said, however, it is important not to  consider this factor in isolation, but to examine it "having regard to all the circumstances".
The mere presence of some unfairness in the manner in which the  evidence was obtained, and the fact that the admission of the statement operates unfortunately for the accused, do not compel irrevocably the conclusion that evidence obtained in such a manner be automatically excluded.
In the present case, even  assuming that this factor militated sufficiently toward finding that the administration of justice could be brought into disrepute by the admission of the voluntary statement, I would nonetheless conclude that the exclusion of this reliable evidence would bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute, given the seriousness of the offence as well as the fact that the making of the statement was essentially incidental to the police officers' unconstitutional conduct.
121
Lastly, I wish to note that I am also mindful of the concern raised by McEachern C.J.  that this statement tends to connect the accused more closely with the crime, and could give rise to an inference of consciousness of guilt.
It is important to realize,  however, that trial fairness will only be connected to the rights violation, and therefore subject to special scrutiny under the first branch of the Collins analysis, when there is some possibility that the evidence is unreliable or otherwise likely to lead to the conviction of an innocent person, and when this unreliability is somehow attributable to the state's unconstitutional conduct.
Such was not the case here.
Under the  circumstances, there was no reasonable possibility of unreliability in the statement.
I  note, as well, that if a statement or other communicative behaviour is prejudicial in the evidentiary sense, in that it could mislead a trier of fact by causing it to follow an inappropriate chain of logic, then that problem must be addressed within the context of the traditional balancing test outlined by this Court in R. v. Seaboyer, [1991] 2 S.C.R. 577, by inquiring into whether the probative value of the evidence outweighs its prejudicial effect.
122
To recapitulate, although the admission of the evidence most definitely operates  unfortunately for the appellant, a reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of all of the circumstances in this case would conclude that the exclusion of this evidence would bring the administration of justice into greater disrepute than its inclusion.
The most important consideration leading me to this conclusion is that  admission of this statement would not imply any condonation of the police officers' actions, even though those actions were, themselves, clearly contrary to the long-term interests of the integrity of the justice system.
Any other damage to the integrity of  the judicial system, such as the unfairness flowing from the fact that the windfall statement might not otherwise have been made, is outweighed by the impact upon the administration of justice of excluding such evidence, given that it is incidental to the opprobrious police conduct, inherently reliable, and significantly probative of the most serious crime in Canada.
123
Because of my conclusion that the statement to Hall is admissible under s. 24(2) of  the Charter, I am also satisfied that the admission of the gun and the fact of finding the gun would not bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
2.
The Interaction of Section 24(2) of the Charter and Section 686(1)(b)(iii)  of the Code
124
Given my conclusion that the evidence which is the subject of this appeal was  properly admitted at trial, it is not strictly necessary for me to address the interaction between s. 24(2) of the Charter and s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Code.
Nonetheless, assuming that my colleague is correct in concluding that the impugned  evidence should be excluded, I shall address this issue as well.
(i)
Principles Governing the Interaction of Section 24(2) and Section  686(1)(b)(iii)
125
Section 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Code reads as follows:
686.
(1)
On the hearing of an appeal against a conviction or against a  verdict that the appellant is unfit to stand trial or not criminally responsible on account of mental disorder, the court of appeal
...
(b)
may dismiss the appeal where
...
(iii)
notwithstanding that the court is of the opinion that on any  ground mentioned in subparagraph (a)(ii) the appeal might be decided in favour of the appellant, it is of the opinion that no substantial wrong or miscarriage of justice has occurred. . . .
The most recent elucidation of the proper approach to s. 686(1)(b)(iii) is outlined by  Major J., speaking for the Court on this issue, in R. v. Bevan, [1993] 2 S.C.R. 599.
After outlining various approaches to s. 686(1)(b)(iii) that had been utilized by this  Court in the past, he consolidated those approaches within the following test, at p. 617:
...
the task of an appellate court is to determine whether there is any  reasonable possibility that the verdict would have been different had the error at issue not been made.
[Emphasis added.]
The most recent statement by this Court on the interaction between s. 24(2) of the  Charter and s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Code, however, predates Major J.'s articulation of the proper approach to be taken to s. 686(1)(b)(iii).
126
In R. v. Elshaw, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 24, the accused was observed with young boys under  suspicious circumstances, and attempted to flee when police accosted him.
He was  locked in the police van for a short period of time after which he made several inculpatory statements to the police.
Iacobucci J. found that the accused had been  denied his rights under s. 10(b), that the statements should be excluded under s. 24(2) and that the curative provisions in s. 686(1)(b)(iii) could not prevent the ordering of a re-trial.
He made the following observation on the interplay between s. 24(2) of the  Charter and s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Code (at p. 46):
If the evidence in question should have been excluded under s.  24(2) of the Charter because its admission would put the administration of justice into disrepute, then generally its admission was such as to amount to a substantial wrong or miscarriage of justice, thereby putting matters beyond the reach of s. 686(1)(b)(iii), which is available to cure errors of law where no substantial wrong or miscarriage of justice results.
Consequently, s. 686(1)(b)(iii) is not available in this  case.
This is not to say that there may not be other  circumstances where the curative provision could apply notwithstanding that evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
[Emphasis added.]
We must recall that the inculpatory statements given to the police by the accused in  Elshaw were quite central to the Crown's case, and no doubt played an important role in his conviction.
In essence, therefore, given the majority's finding of a s. 10(b)  violation and given the majority's conclusion that the impugned inculpatory statements should be excluded under s. 24(2), there was, indeed, a "reasonable possibility that the verdict would have been different" had this important evidence not been available to the Crown.
127
I note, however, that in Elshaw, Iacobucci J. did not have the benefit of Major J.'s  approach to s. 686(1)(b)(iii) for the Court in Bevan.
As such, I believe that it is now  clear that the "other circumstances" to which Iacobucci J. alluded in Elshaw include situations where, even if the appellate court concludes that certain evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2) of the Charter, the court is satisfied that no reasonable possibility existed that the verdict would have been different.
128
I would like to preface my remarks on the application of s. 686(1)(b)(iii) to the  instant case with three additional observations about the interplay between s. 24(2) of the Charter and s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Code.
First, it is now established that although  an examination under s. 24(2) must look to the particular context of the rights violation, the determination as to whether or not evidence should be excluded necessarily also involves long-term considerations, such as the impact on the reputation of the justice system of the regular inclusion or exclusion of this type of evidence:
Collins, at p. 281.
Section 686(1)(b)(iii), by contrast, only requires  consideration by the appellate court of the particular circumstances before it.
The  differing breadth of the examination under s. 24(2) and under s. 686(1)(b)(iii) is therefore one indication that the two sections are clearly not coextensive.
129
Second, as I observed at the outset of my reasons, it is important to recall that the  French version of s. 24(2), which is the text upon which the Collins framework is based, requires that evidence be excluded "if its admission could bring the administration of justice into disrepute".
A conclusion that the administration of  justice could be brought into disrepute by the admission of certain evidence does not necessarily mean that its admission has, by definition, led to a "substantial wrong" or "miscarriage of justice" in the particular case under review.
130
Third, s. 24(2) of the Charter and s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Code clearly focus on  different things, in furtherance of different objectives.
Section 24(2) focuses on  whether the inclusion or exclusion of evidence obtained in violation of the Charter would bring the administration of justice into further disrepute.
Its primary purpose,  therefore, is protection of the integrity of the judicial system.
By contrast, as is clear  from Major J.'s test in R. v. Bevan, s. 686(1)(b)(iii) focuses on the outcome of the particular proceedings.
Its primary purpose is to enable appellate courts to feel  unhindered to clarify errors of law committed by the trial judge.
If a new trial were  required every time an appellate court identified an error of law in the proceedings below, even if that error were immaterial to the outcome of the proceedings, then appellate courts might be reluctant to identify such errors of law in the first place.
Instead, s. 686(1)(b)(iii) reflects a careful balancing of collective interests in the  effective and efficient conclusion of litigation against the right of the individual accused to a full and fair trial.
Whenever these two interests collide, s. 686(1)(b)(iii)  resolves the conflict in favour of the accused.
Where there is no conflict, however,  then s. 686(1)(b)(iii) provides a means by which to advance collective interests while not at the expense of the accused.
(ii)
Application of Section 686(1)(b)(iii) to the Facts
131
In R. v. Hodge (1993), 133 N.B.R. (2d) 240, the New Brunswick Court of Appeal  found that evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2), yet declined to order a retrial on the basis that no substantial wrong or miscarriage of justice had occurred.
The impugned evidence was a hair sample which had been seized from the accused  while he was detained, and which was matched with hair found on the motorcycle with which he was alleged to have made his getaway from the scene of a robbery.
The  court found a clear s. 8 violation and ruled that the seized hair should have been excluded under s. 24(2), but declined to order a new trial on the basis that the hair sample had limited probative value since the hair on the motorcycle could have been deposited at any time prior to the incident, and could not have factored very significantly in the conviction of the accused.
132
My colleague declines to apply s. 686(1)(b)(iii) in the present case on the basis that  the admission of the evidence amounted to a "substantial wrong".
Moreover, he relies  upon John v. The Queen, [1985] 2 S.C.R. 476, for the proposition that appellate courts should not retry cases to assess the worth of residual evidence after improperly adduced evidence has been extracted.
In John, this Court found that the  prosecution improperly split its case so as to sandwich the defence, forcing the accused to testify a second time and face a second round of cross-examination on issues that related directly to credibility.
The Court stated at p. 480 that, "[i]t is of  course impossible to reconstruct this trial by jury so as to determine what the verdict would have been had this evidence not been presented".
That case is very clearly  distinguishable from the case at bar.
133
In the present case, although the murder weapon and the statement to Hall were  significant pieces of evidence, the remainder of the case was so overwhelming as to make this an appropriate case in which to invoke the curative provisions of s. 686(1)(b)(iii) notwithstanding a finding that evidence should have been excluded under s. 24(2).
Even without the impugned statement from Hall and the evidence of the  actual gun, the Crown's case against the accused was unimpeachable.
Evidence  properly admitted at trial included the following: testimony from the appellant's father that he had found a pair of jeans and a vest with a floral pattern (the same clothing that other witnesses testified Worms had been wearing the night of her murder) in the back of the family pick-up truck the morning after the killing; testimony from the appellant's girlfriend, Hall, that she had found a vest of that description in his pick-up the next day, and that he had snatched it away from her; testimony that the accused was at the same nightclub as Worms on the night of the murder; testimony by a friend of the appellant (Biddlecome) that the appellant stole a . 410 shotgun a few weeks before the murder of Worms; testimony from Biddlecome  that the appellant had showed him the same shotgun with the barrel sawed off days before the killing; three . 410 shotgun shells found in the appellant's vehicle; and  testimony from Hall that the appellant had voluntarily told her, during the spring of 1985, that he had been present at the killing but that he had stood by while Biddlecome beat the victim and killed her.
This statement definitively placed the  appellant at the scene of the crime, and therefore left it to the jury to decide whether the murderer was the appellant or Biddlecome.
In this respect, the accused did not  testify, Biddlecome denied any involvement on the stand, and there was no evidence of beating found on the body.
Finally, striking similar fact evidence was admitted into  evidence concerning the almost identical killing of Hughes (to which the appellant confessed and had already been convicted) three months after the killing of Worms.
134
Moreover, I note the trial judge's warning to the jury as to the limited probative value  of both the gun and the appellant's statement to Hall that he had directed police to its location:

Now, I'm invading your function, but I do so deliberately, to caution  you that that statement, if you accept it as truthful and accurate, that he took the police to where the gun was in the river, is not evidence that he, Burlingham, threw the gun in the river necessarily.
It only goes so far as  to show that he knows that somebody, and possibly including himself, but somebody put the gun in the river at that location.
Given the appellant's assertions to Hall that he had seen Biddlecome kill the victim, it  was open for the jury to conclude that the appellant had simply seen Biddlecome dispose of the weapon.
In my view, the judge's sharp cautionary remarks to the jury  on the use of the evidence is surely a factor in deciding whether "there [was] a reasonable possibility that the verdict would have been different", since this warning could have mitigated at least some of the prejudice that might flow to the accused as a result of an impermissible inference of consciousness of guilt.
The gun, moreover,  proved absolutely nothing about whether it was the appellant who committed the murder, since it could equally well have been Biddlecome, according to the appellant's tale to Hall.
Although the appellant did not testify, defence counsel impressed upon  the jury members in his closing address that they had heard the appellant's story through the mouth of Hall.
135
Having regard to all the circumstances, including the sharp warning issued by the trial  judge, the reliance by defence counsel on the story of the murder told through the mouth of Hall, and the overwhelming case against the accused presented by the Crown at trial, I am satisfied that the absence or presence of either or both items of the impugned evidence would not have factored materially in the ultimate outcome.
I  am satisfied that there is no reasonable possibility that the verdict would have been different had the impugned evidence been excluded under s. 24(2) of the Charter.
3.
The Unfair Crown Conduct
136
In closing, I would like to turn very briefly to the Crown's conduct in repudiating the  "deal" reached between the police officers and the appellant.
I agree with my  colleague's conclusion that the conduct of the authorities, though certainly contemptible, did not amount to one of the "clearest of cases" of abuse of process, requiring a stay of proceedings.
I am also mindful of the fact that the trial judge found  the police to have made an honest mistake and not to have acted with mala fides in breaking their bargain.
Their misunderstanding of the Crown's offer may very well  have been genuine.
However, I firmly believe that the Crown acted in bad faith by  charging the accused with first degree murder notwithstanding the fact that the Crown was aware that the police had misled the appellant who, in full reliance on the "deal" proffered by the police, had fulfilled his half of the bargain.
Under the circumstances,  and given that the Crown did not object to the police officers' presenting the "deal" on the Crown's behalf, it seems highly unfair and unjust to allow the Crown to act in total disregard for its agents undertakings, and to impose the consequences for such disregard upon the appellant.
For this reason, I would find a violation of the principle  of fundamental fairness under s. 7 of the Charter, as discussed in my reasons in R. v. S.(R.J.).
Under the circumstances, while I do not believe that this case is one of the  "clearest of cases" calling for a stay of proceedings, I am of the opinion that it would be appropriate and just under s. 24(1) of the Charter to require the Crown to uphold its half of the "deal", and for this Court to substitute a conviction for the lesser included offence of second degree murder for the present conviction of first degree murder.
III.
Disposition
137
I would dismiss the appeal but would substitute a conviction of second degree murder  for the conviction of first degree murder imposed at trial, and return the case to the trial judge for proper sentencing in this respect.
//Sopinka J.//
The reasons of Sopinka, Cory Iacobucci and Major JJ. were delivered by

SOPINKA J. --
I agree with the reasons and conclusion of Justice Iacobucci  but wish to address the point made by my colleague, Justice L'Heureux-Dube, that the Court has departed from the approach adopted in R. v. Collins, [1987] 1 S.C.R. 265, in favour of a rule of automatic exclusion.
138
The criticism made by my colleague closely parallels the opinion of Professor  Paciocco who advocates a more literal and restrictive interpretation of s. 24(2) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
See David M. Paciocco, "The Judicial  Repeal of s. 24(2) and the Development of the Canadian Exclusionary Rule" (1990), 32 Crim. L.Q. 326.
Not surprisingly, commentators no less than the public differ as  to the appropriate approach to the exclusion of evidence associated with a violation of a Charter right.
See, for example, Yves-Marie Morissette, "The Exclusion of  Evidence under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms:  What to Do and What Not to Do" (1984), 29 McGill L.J. 521; R. J. Deslisle, "Collins: An Unjustified Distinction" (1987), 56 C.R. (3d) 216; Tim Quigley and Eric Colvin, "Developments in Criminal Law and Procedure: The 1988-89 Term" (1990), 1 S.C.L.R. (2d) 187; Steven M. Penney, "Unreal Distinctions:  The Exclusion of Unfairly Obtained Evidence Under s. 24(2) of the Charter" (1994), 32 Alta. L. Rev. 782, at p. 800.
While Professor Paciocco favours an approach that would be less exclusionary and, in  his opinion, more in tune with the views of the average Canadian, Steven Penney, in his comprehensive article at p. 810, argues that by focusing on trial fairness, as opposed to the criminal justice system as a whole, we "render individual Canadians more susceptible to invasions of their constitutional rights".
139
Both Professor Paciocco and my colleague are of the view that the approach we have  taken is out of step with the public mood.
Quite apart from the admonitions of  Lamer J. (as he then was) in Collins, at pp. 281-82, that individual rights are not to be submitted to an adjudication by the majority, there is no accurate assessment of public opinion.
Adjusting the approach to Charter rights based on public opinion  surveys is fraught with difficulties.
This can be illustrated by reference to the  empirical study to which my colleague refers by A. W. Bryant, M. Gold, H. M. Stevenson and D. Northrup, "Public Attitudes Toward the Exclusion of Evidence:  Section 24(2) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms" (1990), 69 Can. Bar Rev. 1.
It purported to show "a significant gap between public and judicial opinion"  (p. 45) regarding the application of the Collins factors.
After publication of that  study, a further study by the same authors, "Public Support for the Exclusion of Unconstitutionally Obtained Evidence" (1990), 1 S.C.L.R. (2d) 555, concluded at p. 557 that "taking into account some of the ambiguity in the case law, the gap between public and judicial opinion may not be that substantial over a broad range of cases".
140
The study concluded with the following warning, at p. 587:

Whatever one's views on the merits or rationale of the exclusionary  rule, our study illustrates the multi-faceted and complex nature of the public's judgments about admissibility.
Levels of support for the  exclusion of evidence varied considerably depending upon a number of factors, some of which were case-specific while others were attitudinal and demographic.
In this respect, any argument for or against how judges  apply section 24(2) that relies upon a supposedly monolithic "public opinion" clearly must be rejected.
[Emphasis added.]
141
Had the Court reacted to the first study and altered its approach, the validity of cases  decided under the altered approach would have been called into question by the subsequent study.
It is for this reason that the test with respect to what could bring  the administration of justice into disrepute was stated in Collins to be grounded in longer term community values rather than the public passion of the moment.
These  long-term community values are to be assessed in terms of the views of the hypothetical, reasonable, well-informed and dispassionate person in the community.
R. v. Collins
142
The jurisprudence of this Court with respect to s. 24(2), subsequent to Collins, has  generally evolved with due respect for stare decisis but also with due regard for the fact that as an early comprehensive statement of principles, it did not purport to be exhaustive or immutable.
The key statement of principles in Collins is contained in  the following passage at pp. 284-85:
Real evidence that was obtained in a manner that violated the Charter will  rarely operate unfairly for that reason alone.
The real evidence existed  irrespective of the violation of the Charter and its use does not render the trial unfair.
However, the situation is very different with respect to cases  where, after a violation of the Charter, the accused is conscripted against himself through a confession or other evidence emanating from him.
The  use of such evidence would render the trial unfair, for it did not exist prior to the violation and it strikes at one of the fundamental tenets of a fair trial, the right against self-incrimination.
Such evidence will generally arise  in the context of an infringement of the right to counsel.
Our decisions in  Therens [[1985] 1 S.C.R. 613] and Clarkson v. The Queen, [1986] 1 S.C.R. 383, are illustrative of this.
The use of self-incriminating evidence  obtained following a denial of the right to counsel will generally go to the very fairness of the trial and should generally be excluded.
It is apparent that the words "conscripted against himself through a confession or  other evidence emanating from him" necessitated further definition in subsequent cases.
143
Whether it was ever so intended, it soon became apparent that real evidence and  evidence emanating from the accused were not mutually exclusive categories of evidence, and in R. v. Ross, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 3, Lamer J. explained at p. 16 that:
...
the use of any evidence that could not have been obtained but for the  participation of the accused in the construction of the evidence for the purposes of the trial would tend to render the trial process unfair.
The rationale for this view is that it is unfair for the Crown to make out its case in  whole or in part by the use of evidence that it obtained in breach of the rights of the accused and involving his or her participation.
La Forest J. addressed this point in  Thomson Newspapers Ltd. v. Canada (Director of Investigation and Research, Restrictive Trade Practices Commission), [1990] 1 S.C.R. 425, stating at p. 553:
A breach of the Charter that forces the eventual accused to create  evidence necessarily has the effect of providing the Crown with evidence it would not otherwise have had.
It follows that the strength of its case  against the accused is necessarily enhanced as a result of the breach
In  contrast, where the effect of a breach of the Charter is merely to locate or identify already existing evidence, the case of the ultimate strength of the Crown's case is not necessarily strengthened in this way.
The fact that  the evidence already existed means that it could have been discovered anyway.
Where this is the case, the accused is not forced to confront any  evidence at trial that he would not have been forced to confront if his Charter rights had been respected.
[Emphasis added.]
144
The participation of the accused in providing incriminating evidence involving a breach  of Charter rights is the ingredient that tends to render the trial unfair as he or she is not under any obligation to assist the Crown to secure a conviction.
See R. v. Genest,  [1989] 1 S.C.R. 59, at p. 83.
Serious breaches of the Charter which do not involve  the participation of the accused may result in the exclusion of the evidence under the second branch of the Collins test.
145
My colleague accepts the Collins test and that its application would satisfy the  hypothetical reasonable person.
Specifically, she does not criticize the principle that  the admission of evidence that would render the trial unfair would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
A fair trial is the sine qua non of our justice  system and it is hard to conceive of a situation in which it could be said that an unfair trial resulting in a conviction did not depreciate the repute of our system of justice.
My colleague's criticism is with respect to the kind of evidence that can result in an  unfair trial.
In her view, only the admission of evidence that is not reliable by reason  of some connection with state action amounting to a Charter breach can render the trial unfair (the "reliability principle").
Other state conduct which runs afoul of  common law and Charter protections is grouped under the "fairness principle".
The  fairness principle "recognizes the vital importance in ensuring that the state treat each individual in accordance with basic principles of decency and fair play" but violation of the fairness principle cannot render the trial unfair.
A violation of the fairness  principle may in certain circumstances result in the exclusion of evidence provided that the breach of the Charter protection is so serious that its admission would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.
146
I have great difficulty in appreciating how the application of these two principles as  suggested by my colleague constitutes a return to Collins.
Nowhere in Collins is the  fairness of the trial equated with the reliability of the evidence.
The description used  in Collins as to the kind of evidence that could render a trial unfair was "a confession or other evidence emanating from him" (p. 284).
Leaving aside the words "or other  evidence emanating from him", even the admissibility of a "confession" is not determined solely on the basis of reliability.
Prior to the Charter and at common law,  reliability ceased to be the exclusive basis for excluding confessions.
See Rothman v.  The Queen, [1981] 1 S.C.R. 640, R. v. Hebert, [1990] 2 S.C.R. 151, especially at p. 207, R. v. Whittle, [1994] 2 S.C.R. 914, at p. 932, and R. v. Sang, [1980] A.C. 402.
It  could hardly be suggested that exclusion of involuntary confessions did not relate to the fairness of the trial.
The reliability principle would, therefore, impose a more  restrictive exclusionary rule than that which existed at common law.
Its  preoccupation with the probative value of the evidence would also appear to be a close relative of the rule in R. v. Wray, [1971] S.C.R. 272. At page 293, Martland J.  stated:
...
the exercise of a discretion by the trial judge arises only if the admission  of the evidence would operate unfairly.
The allowance of admissible  evidence relevant to the issue before the court and of substantial probative value may operate unfortunately for the accused, but not unfairly.
It is  only the allowance of evidence gravely prejudicial to the accused, the admissibility of which is tenuous, and whose probative force in relation to the main issue before the court is trifling, which can be said to operate unfairly.
Wray was widely criticized, has not been followed by this Court and was not the  basis for the exclusionary power adopted by the Charter in s. 24(2).
See Anne  McLellan and Bruce Elman, "The Enforcement of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms:  An Analysis of Section 24" (1983), 21 Alta. L. Rev. 205, at p. 230; Penney, supra, at p. 794; R. v. S. (R.J.), [1995] 1 S.C.R. 451, per L'Heureux-Dube J., at pp. 583-84.
147
It is not accurate to characterize the first branch of the Collins test as an automatic  rule of exclusion with respect to all self-incriminating evidence.
While a finding that  admission of illegally obtained evidence would render the trial unfair will result in exclusion, the Court must first conclude that "in all the circumstances" the admission of the evidence would render the trial unfair.
148
R. v. Tremblay, [1987] 2 S.C.R. 435, and R. v. Mohl, [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1389, illustrate  the kinds of circumstances that can be taken into account to secure admission of the evidence even in the case of a breach of the right to counsel under s. 10(b) of the Charter.
Discoverability
149
The discoverability or "but for" test which my colleague criticizes can also be traced  to Collins.
At page 285, Lamer J. stated that, in relation to the factors relating to the  fairness of the trial, "[i]t may also be relevant, in certain circumstances, that the evidence would have been obtained in any event without the violation of the Charter".
In R. v. Ross, supra, in relation to evidence that could be classed as real evidence, he  observed that the fairness of the trial would be affected by "the use of any evidence that could not have been obtained but for the participation of the accused" [emphasis added].
In R. v. Dersch, [1993] 3 S.C.R. 768, at p. 781, my colleague L'Heureux- Dube J. states:
Pursuant to Collins, supra, the admission of evidence that would have  been unlikely to have been discovered, had the Charter violation not occurred, severely affects the fairness of the trial.
On the other hand, if  the evidence had been discoverable regardless of the Charter violation, the fairness of the trial will not be influenced.
150
While the Court has not decided the extent to which discoverability is relevant in all  aspects of the Collins test, it has been applied to admit evidence (R. v. Black, [1989] 2 S.C.R. 138) as well as to exclude evidence (R. v. Mellenthin, [1992] 3 S.C.R. 615).
151
The distinction that was made in Collins between real evidence and evidence  emanating from the accused was based, at least in part, on the rationale that real evidence (or things) can be discovered without the participation of the accused.
They  pre-existed the state action which is called into question, and were there to be discovered by investigative means not involving the accused.
In a situation such as R.  v. Ross in which this distinction is blurred, discoverability has been used to place the evidence in one or other of these two categories.
If the evidence was discoverable  without the participation of the accused, then it has the attributes of real evidence.
Conversely, evidence that clearly emanates from the accused such as statements has  not been subjected to the discoverability analysis.
While it can be argued that when  an accused has been denied the right to counsel under s. 10(b), an inquiry could be made as to whether the accused would have acted differently had his Charter rights been observed, the Court has generally refused to enter into such an inquiry.
See R. v.  Strachan, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 980, at p. 1002; R. v. Elshaw, [1991] 3 S.C.R. 24, at pp. 43-44; R. v. Bartle, [1994] 3 S.C.R. 173, at pp. 217-18.
Unless the right to counsel is  waived by the accused, such a breach generally results in the exclusion of the evidence.
152
Various proposals have been made as to the future direction that this Court should  take with respect to s. 24(2).
Some would favour an approach that is less  exclusionary and others more exclusionary.
It has been suggested that the distinction  between real and other evidence be eliminated as well as any distinction between the nature of the Charter right that has been infringed.
See Deslisle, supra.
It has been  proposed that the distinction based on participation of the accused be eliminated, and that discoverability be the main touchstone of admissibility (R. v. Meddoui (1990), 61 C.C.C. (3d) 345, at p. 364).
See Quigley and Colvin, supra.
153
While we have not rushed in to adopt every current theory on the application of s.  24(2), these are serious proposals that have been and should be taken into account in the incremental evolution of the jurisprudence in this area.
Accordingly, as my  colleague Iacobucci J. points out, the distinction between real and conscriptive evidence is not treated as determinative and greater emphasis has been placed on the discoverability or "but for" test.
See Mellenthin, supra.
In my opinion, we should  proceed to develop the law relating to s. 24(2) on this basis rather than adopt the new approach advocated by my colleague L'Heureux-Dube J.
In my view, our approach to  date is more consistent with Collins and therefore with stare decisis.
Moreover, I  believe it strikes the appropriate balance between a restrictive versus a liberal exclusionary rule, and therefore is more faithful to the values that the Charter protects.
154
//Gonthier J.//
The following are the reasons delivered by
154
GONTHIER J. --
I have had the benefit of the reasons of Justices L'Heureux-Dube,  Sopinka and Iacobucci.
I consider that those of L'Heureux-Dube J., read together with  the comments of Sopinka J., contribute to a proper understanding of the principles governing the exclusion of evidence under s. 24(2) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
I am in agreement with Iacobucci J. that the accused's statement to  Ms. Hall is to be excluded as well as the gun and its location, the discovery of which could be made possible by this statement.
The making of this statement which  recounted the carrying out by the accused of his part of the deal made with the police officers was intimately connected to that deal which was obtained through the highly egregious conduct of the police officers in pressing the accused to confess and systematically undermining the role of defence counsel.
This conduct was a Charter  violation of the most serious kind, bringing into play both the Reliability and the Fairness Principles referred to by L'Heureux-Dube J. though other evidence served to allay concern as to reliability.
The charge of first degree murder is, it is true, one of  the most serious known to the criminal law.
In the circumstances, however, it is my  view that the admission of this evidence would tend to bring the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of a reasonable person, dispassionate and fully apprised of the circumstances.
The evidence should therefore be excluded.
The  accused must be tried for his crime but without having to face evidence which is the product of egregious police misconduct.
155
At the same time, in agreement with the reasons of Iacobucci J., I am not prepared to  apply the curative provision of s. 686(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Code, R.S.C., 1985, c. C-46.
The extreme egregious conduct of the police in this case casts a pall on the  perception of fairness of the whole trial process and constituted a substantial wrong for which the proper remedy is a new trial.
While miscarriage of justice in  s. 686(1)(b)(iii) may focus on avoiding conviction of the innocent, substantial wrong (which, I note, does not appear in s. 686(1)(a)(iii)) may be more encompassing.
156
I therefore concur in the disposition of this appeal by Iacobucci J.
Appeal allowed, L'HEUREUX-DUBE J. dissenting in part.
Solicitor for the appellant:  Sheldon Goldberg, Vancouver.
Solicitor for the respondent:  The Ministry of the Attorney General,  Vancouver.
- 1 - .
Private Members' Business
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Monday, March 14, 1994
The House met at 11 a.m.
Prayers
Private Members' Business

[Translation]
Parliament of Canada Act (oath or solemn affirmation)
Bill C-201.
Motion for second reading
Mr. Eugène Bellemare (Carleton--Gloucester) moved that Bill C-201,  an act to amend the Parliament of Canada Act (oath or solemn affirmation), be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs.
He said:
Madam Speaker, I welcome this opportunity to introduce  Bill C-201, the first Private Members' bill of this session.
It  concerns the oath of allegiance we swear to the Queen, to which I would like to make some changes.

[English]
On October 25, 1993 I was honoured and proud to be elected to Parliament for the second time.
On November 9, 1993 at my swearing in ceremony I had the honour as an elected member of the Canadian Parliament of pledging allegiance to the Queen.
Having been elected to Parliament by the electors of my riding of Carleton--Gloucester by a record 46,800 votes in my favour, about 35,000 votes more than my nearest challenger, I felt proud but above all I felt honoured of having been elected to serve so many Canadians.
For this reason I want to add to the present oath of office, that is to say the one that pays allegiance to the Queen, a pledge of allegiance to Canada and its Constitution.
After swearing allegiance to the Queen on my family Bible and signing the parliamentary documents handed to me by the Clerk in the presence of my wife and children, I requested that the Clerk of the House of Commons let me read the following affirmation:
[Translation]

I, Eugène Bellemare, member of Parliament for Carleton--Gloucester, swear  and solemnly affirm that I will be loyal to Canada and that I will perform the duties of a member of the House of Commons honestly and justly in conformity with the Constitution of Canada.
[English]

I was extremely proud to add this affirmation to my pledge of loyalty to the Queen.
Since I first introduced this bill in 1993 when it only went to first reading, I have had many discussions and conversations on this topic and received many letters from across Canada from my constituents and colleagues applauding this bill which adds to our present oath to the Queen. It adds to our allegiance to Canada.
It is with this support that I present the bill to the House today.
This private member's bill in no way negates or removes our allegiance to the Queen.
Our parliamentary monarchy is part of our Canadian Constitution, our Canadian history and our Canadian heritage.
The Constitution cannot be amended by Parliament without the consent of the provinces and territories.
My proposed oath for solemn affirmation to Canada and the Constitution is a proposed amendment to the Parliament of Canada Act, not the Constitution, and therefore is in proper order.
It comes as an addition to swearing allegiance to the Queen.
The wording of my private member's bill was prepared according to parliamentary rules by the legal experts of the House of Commons.

[Translation]
Some people think this bill is redundant, in that the oath of  allegiance to the Queen already implies allegiance to Canada and Canadians and it would therefore be unnecessary to add a pledge of allegiance to the Constitution.
In my experience, however, what is  implied is often interpreted differently by different people.
I think it is important to affirm what we believe in when we pledge  our loyalty, and in this case, I pledge my loyalty to Canada and to Canadians, and I am not afraid to tell the whole country and the whole world.

[English]
Canada, as a member of the British Commonwealth, is headed by the Queen.
The existing oath sworn by members of Parliament is the swearing of allegiance to the Queen.
I was as proud as any member of the House in pledging allegiance to the Queen during my swearing in ceremony.

[Translation]
However, the oath sworn by all members of this House is practically  identical to the oaths sworn in all Commonwealth countries.
I may point out that we were all elected by Canadians in Canada,  and I assume that we all represent Canadians and not people living in other countries like Australia, Bangladesh, Ghana, India, Pakistan, Nigeria, Tanzania, and so forth. These are all Commonwealth countries  whose members of Parliament pledge allegiance to the same Queen.
Canada is a distinct society and is different from other countries  that belong to the Commonwealth and are represented by the Queen.
The  pledge I made to my constituents clearly indicates that I represent Canadians, not citizens of the whole Commonwealth.
Since the bill I introduced in the House today is not votable, this  will prevent me and my fellow members from taking a position and stating whether we feel patriotic about Canada.
I was very disappointed to hear that the Standing Committee on  Procedure and House Affairs, which is responsible for deciding what happens to a Private Member's Bill, has judged that my bill would not be votable.
[English]

Even though my bill answered all 11 criteria for the selection for votable items as set out in the rules of the House, I had submitted a positive written reply to all these criteria when interviewed by the House committee.
It told me the interview would be five minutes. It seemed interested enough to prolong the interview to over 20 minutes and the attitude was very positive.
I do not know what has happened since the time I left that committee when it decided in private to make the bill, unfortunately, non-votable.
I want to make it clear that the bill is an amendment to the Parliament of Canada Act and is not intended to replace the current oath but rather to add to it. The pledge to Canada and the Constitution is in addition to the pledge to the Queen.
Members of Parliament, present, past and future, I am sure are proud to be Canadians and are proud to serve in the House of Commons.
Several other Commonwealth countries are presently studying the need for an oath such as the one I am presenting today.
Members of the national assembly in the province of Quebec already pledge allegiance to the people and the constitution of Quebec. They do this because they feel the need to affirm their loyalty to the people they represent.
They also, as everyone knows, swear allegiance to the Queen.

[Translation]
I would therefore urge all members, who wish to pledge their  loyalty to Canada and Canadians or who feel the need to do so, to do this in the form of a pledge of loyalty to the Constitution and to this country.
I would be delighted to meet anyone who would like to discuss  the pledge of loyalty to Canada I made when I swore my oath of allegiance after the last election.
In concluding, I can inform all hon. members that I am proud that  at my swearing-in after the last election, I added my pledge of loyalty to Canada, to Canadians and to the Constitution.
[English]

I believe that all of my colleagues presently sitting in the House of Commons would like a chance to individually go on record and officially tell their constituents that they are proud to be Canadians.
Giving all members of Parliament a chance to vote on this bill in the House of Commons is the perfect vehicle for such a patriotic statement.

[Translation]
Madam Speaker, in concluding, I wish to say that yes, I was elected  by 46,800 Canadians in a Canadian riding, and I have a responsibility to my constituents in Carleton--Gloucester.
I have a solemn commitment and I am conscious of my responsibility,  to use my judgment to serve all Canadians, and I would ask my fellow members to do likewise.
I know from discussions I have had with them  that in their hearts they want to pledge allegiance to their country, in addition to pledging allegiance to the Queen.
They want to pledge  allegiance to their Constitution and their people.
Mr. François Langlois (Bellechasse):
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to speak on Bill C-201 which was tabled by the hon. member for Carleton--Gloucester.
Constitutionally speaking, I have a problem with this bill.
Pursuant to section 52 of the Constitution Act, 1982, ``the Constitution of Canada is the supreme law of Canada, and any law that is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution is, to the extent of the inconsistency, of no force or effect''.
What exactly is the relationship between the Constitution of Canada  and the oath of allegiance?
The provisions respecting the oath of  allegiance are contained in section 128 of the Constitution Act, 1867 which I will take the liberty of reading.
Section 128 of the  Constitution Act, 1867, which most of us know as the British North America Act, reads as follows:
Every Member of the Senate or House of Commons of Canada shall  before taking his Seat therein take and subscribe before the Governor General or some Person authorized by him, and every Member of a Legislative Council or Legislative Assembly of any Province shall before taking his Seat therein take and subscribe before the Lieutenant Governor of the Province or some Person authorized by him, the Oath of Allegiance contained in the Fifth Schedule to this Act.
The fifth schedule reads as follows:
I, A.B. do swear, that I will be faithful and bear true  Allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria.
Of course, in accordance with the law governing succession to the  throne, the reference to Queen Victoria includes all of her heirs and successors.
This is the sole requirement for sitting in this House that  is set out in the Constitution of Canada.
And, as we have seen, the Constitution is the supreme law of Canada.
The hon. member for Carleton--Gloucester is proposing, through a  simple bill, to amend section 27.1 of the Parliament of Canada Act by the addition of the following:
``No person holding a seat in the House of  Commons shall sit therein nor shall any funds be made available to such a person for the carrying out of parliamentary functions unless the person, in writing, has taken the oath or made the solemn affirmation provided for in Schedule II before the Governor General or any person authorized by the Governor General to administer such oath or solemn affirmation''.
Schedule II of Bill C-201 reads as follows:
I, ---, swear that I will be loyal to Canada and that I will  perform the duties of a member of the House of Commons honestly and justly in conformity with the Constitution of Canada.
Section 27.1 of this bill states very clearly that no member can  sit in this House unless he or she takes this oath.
Enacting a  statutory law is certainly not the way to go about changing the oath of allegiance.
What we need to do is amend the Constitution of Canada,  just as a member of Parliament, Mr. Keyes, attempted to do during the third session of the 34th Parliament with Bill C-270, An Act to amend the Constitution Act, 1867 (oath of allegiance).
It is clear that unless the Constitution of Canada is amended, and  since section 128 applies not only to the federal government, but to the provinces as well, the amending procedure that applies here is unquestionably the one set out in section 38 of the Constitution Act, 1982, that is the 7/50 rule which requires approval of seven provinces representing 50 per cent of the population.
Curiously enough, we are not moving in that direction.
We therefore have  before us a bill that would be futile at best since it would contradict Canada's existing Constitution.
Some of the comments made by the hon. member for Carleton--Gloucester about  the merits of his bill surprised me a little. He told  us that the oath of loyalty to the Crown prescribed in Schedule V of the 1867 Constitution could apply to His or Her Majesty as head of the Commonwealth.
There is a timing problem.
When we look at the situation,  we see that there is an anachronism somewhere for, when the Constitution Act of 1867 was enacted, the Commonwealth did not exist.
How could it have been possible in 1867 to consider a measure applying  to the Queen as head of the Commonwealth when the Commonwealth was formed almost 100 years later?
It also ignores the whole evolution of the monarchy in Canada, from  the imperial conferences of 1926 and 1930 and the 1931 Statute of Westminster to the Constitution Act of 1982 that definitely Canadianized the monarchy.
It is now clear that the monarchy in Canada is solely dependent on  the will of the Canadian Parliament and the Canadian people.
We are not  subjected to any foreign monarchy.
Our oath of loyalty to the Queen is  undoubtedly directed at the Queen of Canada, and only Canadian parliamentarians can swear allegiance to the Queen of Canada.
This oath is not required of parliamentarians in Australia, Great  Britain or New Zealand who swear allegiance to their Queen;
we are the  only ones affected.
Canada is not a republic where the official oath is usually  directed at the state.
It would be rather surprising to see French  parliamentarians, for example, swearing allegiance to President Mitterrand.
They have to swear allegiance to the institutions of the  Fifth Republic.
It is the same thing in the United States of America.
In a monarchial system of government like ours, the Sovereign, the  Queen of Canada, is the embodiment of the state as the official head of the Canadian state.
Like Louis XIV, Her Majesty the Queen could say, ``I am the state,''  subject, of course, to the limits imposed by the Constitution since we live in a constitutional monarchy.
Swearing allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II as Queen of  Canada is the same as swearing allegiance to Canada, everyone having their own definition of Canada.
Is it the Canada of 1867 with its four  provinces?
Is it the Canada that existed prior to 1949 without  Newfoundland?
If this oath had existed, would it have been possible to  allow Newfoundland to join the Canadian federation if we had sworn to keep the oath's status quo?
Is this a way of singling out the members of  the Official Opposition, who want to promote and eventually achieve Quebec's sovereignty in a democratic fashion and by respecting clearly established constitutional conventions and the right of peoples to self-determination?
Those are questions I am asking myself and to which I have no  answer.
We have always been comfortable since we have always said that  we would respect the current system as long as it remains unchanged, as well as its institutions.
We are showing it every day in this House, and such an oath, even though  it can be voluntary, cannot in my opinion encroach on the provisions of the 1867 Constitution which are unusually clear.
[English]

Mr. Darrel Stinson (Okanagan--Shuswap):
Madam Speaker, I am speaking today in favour of Bill C-201, an act to amend the Parliament of Canada Act and not the constitutional act.
The bill would ensure that all members elected to this place, before they could sit here and before any funds would be made available to them, would have to take an oath or make a solemn affirmation of loyalty to Canada and to the Constitution of Canada.
This oath seems to be an appropriate step in the process of recognizing our nationhood.
It is only recently that Canada became a nation in its own right rather than being merely a so-called dominion of Canada, a part of Great Britain.
As our nation moved through this maturing process, we acquired our own flag, the beautiful red and white maple leaf of which we are so proud today. We have chosen as our national anthem ``O Canada'' in which we sing about having true patriot love for our home, our native land.
In my dictionary the word patriot is defined as being a person who is devoted to and ready to support or defend his or her country.
It comes from a word in Greek and also a word in Latin that means father.
Many people living in Canada today are new Canadians, people whose fathers and mothers were from some other country who came here as immigrants or new Canadians to seek a new life for themselves and for their families.
I want to say a special word of welcome to them and to tell them I hope they will now become Canadian patriots, devoted to and ready to support or defend Canada.
I devoutly hope that they will be proud to call themselves simply Canadians, not Chinese-Canadians or Lebanese-Canadians or any other hyphenated Canadian.
Personally, I believe there is nothing more racist than saying that we have English Canadians and French Canadians and new Canadians.
We should all just be Canadians and proud of it.
If we want to celebrate the customs and traditions of the land where our parents were born, we should be free to do so but we should first of all be proud Canadians.
Two weeks ago I was in my constituency of Okanagan--Shuswap. I had been invited to visit the children of an elementary school in the community of Sicamous.
They were interested in some of the simpler facts about being a member of Parliament, like where did I live, where did I work.
However one little girl asked a question that had me stumped.
She wanted to know why she and her little classmates do not start every school day by singing ``O Canada''.
I would be obliged if some hon. member could answer that question.
Why do all our Canadian school children not start every school day by singing ``O Canada''?
When members assemble in this place, why do we not start our proceeding by singing ``O Canada''?
I believe such a practice should go hand in hand with swearing our loyalty to Canada as this Bill C-201 would require to show that we are patriots devoted to this country.
There is a group in our midst in this place who are not devoted to Canada. No, no, this group brags that it is devoted not to Canada but instead to the breaking up of Canada, to making the great province of Quebec a separate country.
Personally I would like to go to each of them and ask how they can dare come to Parliament to try to break this great nation apart.
Many of us from western Canada have been hit hard by such legislation as the national energy program which hit Albertans especially hard.
We are paying for official bilingualism while hospital beds are closing from lack of money when we do not even know anybody who speaks French.
Many of us westerners think we have grievances, yet we do not talk of breaking up Canada.
The Reform Party has come to Ottawa to try to right some historic wrongs but we are pledged to working within Canada.
We are each, every one of us, proud patriots devoted to one federation of 10 equal provinces.
It has been said before and in many ways that a country is like a big family.
When hard times come, it can bind a family closer together but it can also tear that same family apart.
As I mentioned earlier a group in our midst in this place thinks times have been so tough for Quebec that it wants to tear Quebec away from the rest of us.
This group says there have been wrongs done to the great province of Quebec. Therefore it wants to separate from Canada and become a separate country.
Nevertheless members of this group somehow found it in their hearts to swear allegiance to the Queen when they took their oaths on becoming members of Parliament.
Many Canadians in Okanagan--Shuswap and all across our nation have asked:  How can anybody be allowed to serve in Parliament who is not loyal to Canada?
How can people be allowed to serve in Parliament who are not patriots devoted to doing the very best for the people they represent both in their own constituencies and for people all across Canada?
Each of these constituencies we as members represent is not some isolated island, not some little kingdom all on its own.
Each and every constituency is part of one country, Canada.
Therefore I cannot accept it when someone in this place says:  ``I only represent Quebec''.
All of us must represent Canada.
We should swear an oath of loyalty to that one great country, Canada.
All of us must feel some pride in the examples set by some members of the government recently when they started making tough decisions about what services, programs, and military bases should be cut.
They did not just think of their own little backyards;
they thought about all of Canada.
Much as we on this side of the House may disagree with some of its overall philosophies, much as we may disagree with this or that piece of the budget or with this or that amount being spent or cut, we must give the government credit for at least trying to look at what is good for the entire country.
Now is time for each of us to look at Bill C-201 and ask ourselves:
If we are one country and if we have our own flag and our own national anthem then why should we not swear or affirm allegiance to Canada before taking our seats as members of Parliament?
Personally I think this is an excellent idea which is long overdue.
I believe in it so firmly that before Black Rod opened the first session of the 35th Parliament, I held a grand opening of my office back home in Okanagan--Shuswap.
I put ads in the paper inviting the community.
With a standing room only crowd I personally took an oath of loyalty to Canada and had everyone at the ceremony sign as my witnesses.
In conclusion I might add we started that little ceremony by singing ``O Canada''.
Hon. Audrey McLaughlin (Yukon):
Madam Speaker, it is a pleasure for me to speak on Bill C-201, a bill to amend the Parliament of Canada Act so that members of the House may pledge allegiance to the country.
I am pleased to support this initiative.
It is extremely important and reflects very much the public opinion I heard during the previous election in my travels throughout various parts of Canada.
I come from Yukon which in this federal Parliament is probably the farthest area away from Ottawa.
I recognize how important it is for those of us who live in regions not in central Canada to share in that feeling of commonality which exists among the majority of Canadians.
I certainly do not share in any way the point of view of colleagues in the Bloc Quebecois who want to see Quebec separated from Canada.
However I respect the right of duly elected parliamentarians to express their views in this Parliament. That is the essence of democracy.
Should we ever be in a position in this country where we did not have a forum to express various views we would indeed be losing not only our democracy but the essence of what we are as a country.
This issue is very important to me as an individual who has worked in federal politics for a number of years and to all Canadians.
The country is going through a period of uncertainty. Many people fear for their economic security but there still remains a pride in what we have achieved together.
We can go further in that and build not on our differences but on what we have in common.
That is where I part company with some of my other colleagues in the House who have often asked why we cannot all be the same.
As a white female anglophone from an Anglo-Saxon background I take great pride that Canada respects different languages, different cultures and that it welcomes people to its shores.
There are only three people in the House of Commons whose ancestors did not come to Canada generations before as immigrants.
We must learn to rejoice in the diversity of our culture, not defile it. It will make the loyalty to and strength of Canada which the bill expresses meaningfully.
There are two visions of what kind of country Canada is.
One vision was presented by my colleague just before me.
Using the analogy of a field of flowers, he would see Canada as a field where all the flowers were the same, all pretty and neat.
My vision of Canada is as a field of flowers of different colours, sometimes chaotic, always difficult but vibrant and providing excitement to the North American continent.
What have we achieved?
We have achieved a political system with different points of view from social democratic to Liberal to Progressive Conservative and the Reform Party.
We represent those views in our debates.
By presenting different alternatives we come out with better solutions.
For the cause of our disunity the tendency today is to point to those individuals who have come to this country and not accepted what it is to be a Canadian.
This is what I believe it means to be a Canadian.
To be a Canadian it means first that we are loyal to this country.
We want to take walls down, not put them up.
Every part of the country from Newfoundland to Yukon is as important as every other part.
When it comes to employment, equity and other issues our goal of social and economic justice sometimes stands alone in the world where the tide often goes the other way.
Canada is not a perfect country.
Things are not always done perfectly, but what are the options?
An option is to wrench our country apart, in many ways to rend our democracy apart when the whole world is moving to work together on major problems of the day such as unemployment and growing debts.
Those are not just Canadian problems.
They are not the problems of the North American continent.
They are problems of the world.
In closing it is with pride that I support the bill. It is a very important message that we put those constituencies we represent front and centre in the House of Commons, but that we know and accept that our first responsibility is to work for Canada.
I hope people will take this debate very seriously and will support this bill.
fill Canada is worth standing up for and we will all be better for doing that.
Mr. Ted White (North Vancouver):
Madam Speaker, in rising to speak to private member's Bill C-201 I should like to state at the outset that Reform MPs do support a change to the oath of allegiance.
In fact a separate oath of allegiance has already been developed by the Reform Party. Many of us used it in our ridings, as my colleague from Okanagan--Shuswap mentioned.
I held a local swearing in ceremony at my office in North Vancouver on January 7 of this year. We invited about 175 voters, chosen at random from the voters' list, people we liked and people we did not. It did not even matter if they voted Liberal; we had them in our office.
Although for the most part the event was fairly informal we did have a formal part of about five or ten minutes when I took the oath of allegiance.
I would like to quote from documentation we used that day which is headed: ``A Statement of Principles and a Pledge of Commitment by Your Reform Party Member of Parliament''.
I will read some of these principles quickly.
I, Ted White, having been elected by the voters of the Federal Constituency of North Vancouver to represent you in the 35th Parliament of Canada, do hereby sincerely pledge that I am committed to the following principles as I carry out my duties on your behalf:
I am committed to the development of a new and stronger united Canada:  a balanced democratic federation of provinces, distinguished by the acceptance of our social responsibilities, and the recognition of the equality and uniqueness of all of our provinces and citizens.
I am committed to equality for all Canadians regardless of race, language, culture, religion or gender and will give true and faithful representation to all of my constituents.
I am committed to being your democratic and fiscal conscience in the 35th Parliament, and I am prepared to demonstrate this commitment by showing leadership by example.
I believe you have sent me to the House of Commons to present your views in that forum, not to represent Ottawa's views to you.
I believe that the House of Commons must be the house of the people, not the house of the parties.
The word ``politician'' must mean a representative of the people not a servant of a party.
To that end, I shall not only encourage you to communicate with me, but I am committed to consulting your views at every opportunity, and shall make myself available to you regularly, within our constituency.
I need your advice and guidance.
I believe that when decisions are to be made on contentious issues of major national importance, it is my duty to seek the consensus view of my constituents, and to represent that consensus in Parliament, even if it conflicts with my own personal view.
I believe you have placed me in a position of great trust.
I shall therefore conduct my personal and public life with honour and integrity.
I shall administer public funds as carefully as if they were my own.
I shall make sure that neither I, nor my family, will profit from any knowledge or influence I have as a legislator.
Then I took the short oath with one of my peers, the hon. member for New Westminster--Burnaby taking the oath.
The oath read:
I, Ted White, your Member of Parliament, do pledge, that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the Canadian federation and to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, and that I will faithfully represent the people of the Electoral District of North Vancouver in the Canadian House of Commons.
The document was then signed and witnessed by 25 of the people present.
The wording for a new oath as suggested in Bill C-201 is similar to the suggested Reform oath in that it addresses the concept of loyalty to the Canadian federation. However I feel that it does lack the very important reference to the need to faithfully represent the people of the riding.
Bill C-201 proposes that the oath read:
I, Ted White, swear that I will be loyal to Canada and that I will perform the duties of a member of the House of Commons honestly and justly in conformity with the Constitution of Canada.
The oath refers to performing the duties of a Member of the House of Commons. However the problem is that there is no job specification for a member of the House of Commons.
If the duties are not defined then it is meaningless to swear to carry out those duties.
MPs are entrusted to conduct themselves in a manner appropriate to the position and very few constraints are placed on us.
We must be free to speak and to act on behalf of our constituents without any controls being placed on us by the system or the government.
It is virtually impossible to define our duties, making the suggested new oath better than the one presently used.
However I believe it is open to improvement.
In the absence of the ability to amend the bill I do support it.
I am sorry it is not a votable bill.
I congratulate the member for introducing it to the House.

[Translation]
Mr. Jean-Paul Marchand (Québec-Est):
Madam Speaker, many things  have been said this morning about Bill C-201.
I cannot comment on all  the points raised. Perhaps I could just correct or qualify a number of  remarks like this one, to the effect that to effectively sustain Canadian unity, all ten provinces must be equal.
That is the problem, this lack of understanding of the fact that  Quebec is slightly different.
We have been trying for a long time to  make English Canada understand that Quebec is not like any other province.
Actually, it was one of the things we tried to do with the  Meech Lake Accord and again with the Charlottetown Accord.
It was in good faith, I think, to seek recognition of the fact that  Quebec is different from the rest of Canada.
It is absolutely obvious to  me, even a blind man could see, be it only at the cultural level, how rich the French language is in Quebec and how many cultural industries it sustains, as compared to English Canada.
Quebec is different in many regards, not only culturally, but also  economically.
Quebec has been trying for thirty years or so to be  recognized as a distinct society or at least as a province which is not like any other.
That is part of the problem with Canada in fact. As long as Quebec's  distinctiveness will not be recognized--because of the failure of Meech and Charlottetown--we will find ourselves stuck with an amending  formula which prevents the Constitution of Canada from being amended to recognize Quebec's uniqueness, and that is a shame, of course.
It is a shame, but only to a point because it sets us on a course  where we will be forced to readjust our relationship to English Canada. I think this will do Quebec much good, and English Canada as well,  judging by another remark made this morning, to the effect that Canada was a distinct society.
The fact of the matter is that Canada is made up  of a numbers of distinct societies.
Just as British Columbia is  completely different from Atlantic Canada, English Canada is different from Quebec.
And I believe that by setting off on this course, by restructuring  Canada, we will be able not only to better define ourselves, in Quebec, but also to develop better relations with English Canada, at least that is what I think.
Basically, we must bear in mind that we are part of a truly great  democracy.
The Bloc members were elected with quite substantial  majorities.
This show of will from the people of Quebec was not  artificial, it was not fabricated. It is not the kind of thing that  happens all of a sudden, by surprise.
It must be recognized that the  people of Quebec massively supported the Bloc Quebecois and this is a reality that we respect and live by.
If we at least want to respect the democratic principle, we must  recognize the legitimacy of the Bloc Quebecois as representative of the distinct character of Quebec here in the House of Commons.
This is not  to insult anyone.
This is not to irritate English Canadian  nationalists--on the contrary, I find it is a very fine thing to affirm the beauties and virtues of English Canada.
Is that opposed to  recognizing the distinctiveness of Quebec?
I think not.
Someone mentioned the diversity of Canada.
I too am a great  believer in it.
Furthermore, it is a principle found in nature, all the  diversity found in gardens--there are many examples of it.
Indeed,  diversity is a richness.
That is what nature teaches us and of course  we in Canada have great diversity.
However, this government, like previous governments, has tried  instead to make Canada uniform.
I think that is a bad idea.
I think  that it is very good to recognize the diversity of Canada, since it makes our country richer.
The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Maheu):
I recognize the hon. member for  Carleton--Gloucester and add that by exercising his right to reply, he will close the debate.
Mr. Eugène Bellemare (Carleton--Gloucester):
Madam Speaker, thank  you for letting me reply at the end of the debate.
I would like to  challenge the sense of loyalty of all Canadian members of the House present here today.
I ask that we waive the Standing Orders of the  House, as I will move at the end of my reply, so that we can vote on my bill.
[English]

What a wonderful opportunity to have MPs declare publicly that yes, they want to vote on my private member's bill, to swear allegiance not only to the Queen but also to Canada, Canadians and the Constitution, and that they are loyal and patriotic citizens.

[Translation]
A few minutes ago, the member for Bellechasse made a presentation  on the legal aspect of my bill.
He took us into the history of Canada  in 1867 and spoke about the Constitution and Queen Victoria and all the regulations of 1867.
He overlooked all the changes to the Constitution  since 1867. He overlooked the repatriation of the Constitution in 1982.
Above all, the member for Bellechasse did not mention that in 1976,  I believe, in Quebec, Premier René Lévesque wanted to respect the Constitution, as I do and all hon. members here, especially the member for Bellechasse and the other members of the Bloc Quebecois, wanted to tell us they do want to respect the Constitution.
With reference to the  Constitution, the then-premier, who was a member of the Parti Quebecois, added that once elected to the Parliament of Canada or a provincial legislature--the Quebec members in the Quebec legislature would swear allegiance to Quebecers and to the Constitution of Quebec.
I congratulate the former premier for that.
Why not?
Members of the Bloc Quebecois were elected to the federal  Parliament.
Very often they seem to forget that they are not members of  the Quebec provincial legislature, which I esteem and respect greatly, but members of the Canadian or national or federal legislature, let them choose the term they like.
They have come here to help make life in Canada better, and let me make an aside on this point.
I often hear members of the Bloc Quebecois refer to French Canada, to English Canada, to Quebec, but what is English Canada?
I would say to them that it includes the province of Quebec.
What is French Canada?
It includes Quebec and also Ontario, New Brunswick, the Yukon, the territories, the other provinces, all of us.
We must be proud of being Canadians and I challenge all members of  this House today.
In closing, I invoke the Standing Orders of the House which allow  me, as a member, proud to be what I am, a Franco-Ontarian, a French Canadian, or if Reform Party members prefer, a French-speaking Canadian, a fourth-generation Franco-Ontarian whose ancestors came from France in the 17th century, and challenge all my colleagues here in the House to let me have a vote on this bill by overriding the Standing Orders.
We  can do so with unanimous agreement and I challenge the patriotism and loyalty to Canada of all members of this House.
Long live Canada!
Long live Canadians!
The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Maheu):
Can the member for Carleton--Gloucester move a motion in the House?
Does the House agree to allow the member to present his motion?
Some hon. members:
No.
Mr. Bellemare:
Only members of the Bloc Quebecois said no to the  country.
The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Maheu):
The time provided for the  consideration of Private Members' Business has now expired.
Pursuant to Standing Order 96(1), the item is dropped from the  Order Paper.
Supply
Government Orders
[English]

Supply
Allotted Day--The Budget
Mr. Ray Speaker (Lethbridge) moved:
Motion
That this House declare  that the Budget plan of this government is not a solution to Canada's debt and deficit problem and therefore request the government to:
(a)
place a moratorium on all new spending programs announced in the  Budget such as Youth Services Corps, Court Challenges Program, Residential Rehabilitation Assistance Plan, Engineers Program, and Infrastructure Program;
(b)
establish effective spending caps in cooperation with all parties  of this House;
(c)
produce quarterly reports on the progress being made on deficit  reduction; and
(d)
commit to immediate corrective action using a spending  contingency plan developed in consultation with all parties in the House.
He said:  Madam Speaker, I rise today only three short weeks since the budget was presented to the House of Commons.
Those three weeks have been very significant.
Today we want to evaluate that budget in light of some of the recent economic changes and events that have occurred.
It is on this basis that I move the motion before the House.
Reformers have objected to the lack of true cuts in the budget.
We have said that it does not go far enough and we still hold to that criticism.
To our ministers currently at the G-7 conference to attempt to create job opportunities, jobs in Canada, jobs in North America and throughout the world, the message today must be very clear to them that it is not the government that will create jobs but rather a matter of the economy being able to have the circumstances in which jobs can be created without the intervention of government.
The budget that was presented to us three weeks ago is already off track.
Assumptions and calculations done in the budget are no longer relevant.
Today in light of that I would like to examine the budget with three factors in mind.
I believe it is time we look again and rethink our responsibilities in the House of Commons.
First, I want to examine the revenue predictions and ask a question.
Is it prudent today to expect the type of revenue forecast that is in the budget?
Second, I want to examine interest rate assumptions.
I ask is it prudent today to expect the type of interest rate forecasts in the budget?
Third, I want to examine the question of what is the true deficit.
Have we been presented with the true picture in the House and as Canadians?
As Canadians we felt that we were misled.
We thought the deficit was $38 billion; then it was projected to be $45 billion.
Someone is misleading us.
Therefore, it is very prudent that we ask is it prudent today to believe the deficit numbers that were presented to us by the Liberal government?
I would like to look at each one of these questions.
I am certain the answer is no to each one, but I believe it is time that we look at each one with greater detail, realism and sincerity in this assembly.
First is the issue of the unrealistic revenue assumptions presented to us.
Forecasting fantastic growth in government revenues is certainly not a recent phenomenon.
The former Conservative government consistently predicted revenues far in excess of what it ever collected.
Knowing this, the Liberals in the budget promised that their budget would be the end of those unrealistic assumptions.
They pledged to come clean with Canadians.
What are the facts?
Robert Fairholm of the forecasting firm DRI Canada said recently:
``The government is saying that revenue growth will exceed the growth in the economy by roughly 22.5 per cent.
This is optimistic''.
If we examine the growth of revenues coming out of the 1982 recession we find that tax revenues increased just over 8 per cent faster than the economy.
The finance minister stood in the House and promised that he would come clean to Canadians. He now says that the revenues will grow 22.5 per cent faster than the economy.
That is unrealistic.
It is blatant wishful thinking.
I wonder where the numbers come from.
There is no indication that we will grow out of this recession as fast as we escaped the recession of 1982.
Because of massive public debt and deficits our growth out of the recession is absolutely hampered.
To expect revenues to grow faster than they did coming out of the 1982 recession is foolhardy.
The finance minister is playing games with Canadians.
We have not seen a change in the way government predicts revenue.
The finance minister is following in the footsteps of his predecessors.
I am sure if Mr. Wilson or Mr. Mazankowski were in the House they would be very proud of the way the budget is playing itself out.
They would be very proud and very pleased to see that the pattern is the same.
It is right to ask: Is it prudent today to expect the types of revenue forecasts that were in the budget?
The answer is clearly no, it is not.
Second, I would like to look at the interest rate assumptions.
We must understand exactly what an increase in interest rates really means.
For every 1 per cent that interests rates on our debt increase, that translates into $1.7 billion in increased interest rates on a yearly basis for the Canadian taxpayer.
That is a significant amount, $1.7 billion per year with a 1 per cent interest rate.
We must recognize that just a 1 per cent increase would wipe out the net savings that the Liberals have claimed in the budget.
Also we must recognize we are very dependent on these interest rates because our debt is so massive.
In the budget the Minister of Finance assumed that short term interest rates would be 4.5 per cent and that long term rates would be 6.4 per cent in 1994.
What are the facts?
Today the short term rates are just above 4 per cent and are rising and the long term rates are already one full point above the minister's predictions.
These rates must be sustained.
If sustained, it will cost anywhere between $2 billion to $3 billion in the budget so that the final outcome will mean a greater deficit for certain.
Where will the minister get this revenue?
How will we come to a point at which we only have a $39.7 billion deficit as projected when we have not taken into consideration these interest rates?
What are the markets saying about future interest rates?
Are these increases just a temporary measure or an indication of future trends?
Sherry Cooper, chief economist of Burns Fry, said as early as last week that the government's projections look suspect.
If the term structure of interest rates is the best indicator of long term rates, as is commonly understood, then the predictions that long term rates will fall are clearly hogwash.
Our current term structure would indicate that rates are on a slow but steady climb up, not down, as predicted in the budget.
One of the other factors we have to consider, and it has not been talked about in the House of Commons, is the Quebec factor and the influence that will have not only on interest rates of the upcoming fiscal budget but certainly on a longer term basis on budgeting in the future.
I am not any more pleased with the prospect of further constitutional wrangling than the government or anyone else in Canada.
However I have the courage to stand today in the House and say that whatever the outcome, the uncertainty created by the separatists who want to tear our great country apart, who want to break us down, will affect our markets and will affect interest rates.
We must recognize that uncertainty is the enemy of the financial markets.
Uncertainty is the enemy of the budget that we are examining today after three weeks.
Let us look at some facts about interest rates and the various effects of constitutional discussions or constitutional wrangling.
How does that type of environment affect interest rates and the value of our Canadian dollar?
I would like to make a couple of quotes.
First, Scotia McLeod had this to say following the debates: ``During the key weeks of the Charlottetown constitutional discussions, the spread between 10 year Canada and U.S. government bonds rose sharply.
The rate on 91 day T-bills jumped from 4.6 per cent to 7.9 per cent and the Canadian dollar dove from 85.4 to 80.0 U.S.''
This is a significant shift.
If this type of uncertainty and this circumstance were created and continued and applicable here today, a 3 per cent rise in rates would translate into $5.1 billion of increased interest costs because of constitutional wrangling.
That would occur over a one year period in a fiscal budget.
We have every reason to believe that the upcoming Quebec question will be more severe and more drawn out than the recent Meech Lake and Charlottetown fiascos.
There are two things I would like to bring to our attention.
First, the potential separation of Quebec will undoubtedly have a much more devastating short term effect on Canada than the passage or failure of the Charlottetown accord.
There is no question about that.
Second and most important, the debate will be more prolonged and certainly delayed in terms of a crisis circumstance.
Mr. Parizeau, the leader in Quebec, has said that if he is elected he would hold a referendum within six months or a year.
That translates into a significant period of uncertainty and, more important, it will have a significant effect on the 1994-95 budget before us.
As Reformers, how do we feel about this matter?
I want to put on record so that it is very clear t;hat we do not want all that constitutional wrangling.
We believe that Quebec should continue to be a part of Canada and that we fully expect Quebecers to see the benefits of staying in Canada.
We will do everything we can to get that message across clearly and concisely.
We reject any divisive message of either the Leader of the Opposition or Mr. Parizeau.
We will do everything on our part to ensure that Quebec stays as part of this nation.
I ask the Minister of Finance today, considering the potential of the Quebec circumstance and considering other circumstances, what provisions he has made for this potentially explosive and expensive issue in the budget before us in the House.
When this issue creates a significant jump in rates and if that jump is sustained, we recognize and we all know that it will cost our federal treasury untold billions of dollars, not millions, which we cannot afford at this time.
We should take this matter into consideration.
That is the reason that this motion is before this assembly today. It is so we can rethink our position, re-entrench what we are doing and be ready for any type of critical circumstance that may befall us.
I want to make a final point with regard to interest rates and the interest rate spread between Canada and the U.S.
The spread between Canadian and American rates indicates the confidence in one economy relative to the other.
When investors lose confidence in Canada or in their Minister of Finance it is reflected in increased costs of borrowing relative to our major partner.
The real question is:
Did the budget increase the confidence of markets in the economy of Canada?
Despite the reserved acceptance by the markets these questions should be asked as well:
How are investors voting with their money?
What are investors doing at the present time?
Are we watching that?
Has the finance minister got his finger on where our Canadian investment money is going?
As I examine those questions the news is not good.
Canadians have been investing abroad in increased numbers due to taxation and lack of confidence in the government's dealing with the debt and deficit question.
International investors are moving away from Canada to lower risk investments.
This has been occurring with greater significance in recent years, especially the last quarter of 1993 and into the early part of 1994.
We can blame the latter government for this, and we should, but we also must take responsibility currently with the budget before us in this assembly.
What are further facts about this budget in terms of confidence?
What can we say it has done for confidence?
How are the investors voting with their dollars?
I quote a couple of people, first, Robert Palombi, senior economist with MMS International who said this recently:
The cracks in investor confidence are beginning to show.
Despite the increase in bond yields, buyers were not attracted.
This does not suggest the financial markets have confidence in lower Canadian rates or tighter Canada-U. S. yield spreads.
This is why Martin's deficit projections are questionable.
The Financial Post pointed out as early as February 24:
Canadian markets have been hit hard by the recent hike in U.S. interest rates, despite a lower inflation rate and weaker economy.
This is a sign that foreigners are selling our bonds, continuing a trend that started in the fourth quarter of last year--A post-budget widening of 10 year Canada-U. S. yield spreads suggests U.S. investors are the ones pulling out of Canada, a big concern since the size of the U.S. holdings now rivals that of the Japanese.
Clearly the 1994-95 budget is no solution to the confidence required in the Canadian economy.
Despite calm assurances from the financial community, investors are telling the story with their money.
They are losing confidence in the ability of Canada to deal with its debt and deficit and the budget gives them no reason to regain that confidence.
I ask this question:
Is it prudent today to expect the types of interest rates forecast in the budget?
To this question I have to say the answer is no.
The market since the budget has destroyed the interest rate assumptions.
The Quebec question is never raised, never mind dealt with in the budget, and the budget has done absolutely nothing to build investor confidence which will create the necessary jobs.
I would like to talk about the fudging of numbers. What are the facts here?
I pointed out very clearly in that section of my remarks that the government projections of $39.7 billion will not hold.
It will most likely be more like the current budget.
The deficit will be $43.7 billion.
I point out that this is not acceptable and it should be dealt with.
On all three of my questions with regard to revenue projections, interest rate projections, and whether the deficit projections are accurate, I want to say no, no, no, on all three counts. They are unrealistic revenue assumptions, unrealistic interest rate projections, and the Liberals have misled the people in terms of the numbers.

[Translation]
[Mr. Yvan Loubier (Saint-Hyacinthe--Bagot):
Madam Speaker, I want  to make a brief comment to bring out two points.
First, I agree with the  hon. member for Lethbridge when he says that the budget does nothing to reduce Canada's deficit and excessive debt.
Indeed, in spite of  unacceptable cuts of $7.5 billion which will affect the unemployed, the poor and the elderly, we will end up with a record deficit which will probably exceed even the least optimistic forecasts of about $45 billion.
However, I do not agree with the hon. member when he dares say that  the gap between Canadian and American interest rates, as well as the difference in the two economies, are attributable to the fact that there is a sovereignist movement in Quebec.
I also disagree when he claims  that our bad financial situation and the sudden fluctuations in our interest rates are due to the existence of that movement.
I want to remind him that, during the debate surrounding the  Charlottetown Accord, in the fall of 1992, the rise of interest rates and the lowering of Canada's credit rating were not due to the presence of sovereignists, but to the catastrophic situation of Canadian public finances and the inability of federalists like the hon. member to control government finances and the economic future of Quebec and Canada.
This is the real problem.
If we go back to 1992 and 1993, we see that the problem is also due  to the chronic inability of the Ontario government to control excessive spending, which had the effect of hurting Canada's reputation, and not only Ontario's, with foreign investors.
The problem of interest rates  and the economy in general is much more related to government finances than to the presence of a sovereignist movement.
In fact, this is the  real source of the problem.
To think and speak like the hon. member for Lethbridge is to bury  one's head in the sand.
And this kind of excessive talk, which stirs up  emotions and is pure misinformation, will scare away investors, who will think that Canadians are not serious.
[English]

Mr. Speaker (Lethbridge):
Madam Speaker, I say to my colleague that constitutional wrangling in the past has had a major effect on interest rates, and that is realistic.
The debate on the Constitution will take place in 1994.
An election is going to take place in Quebec in that period of time.
If Mr. Parizeau is successful the sequence will be a referendum following that and there will be a lot of tug and pull between the federalists and the separatists.
Investors are going to ask themselves whether they really want to invest in Canada.
Interest rates will most likely increase.
For every 1 per cent rise in interest rates on the debt, which is over $500 billion, it costs Canadians $1.7 billion. That will increase the deficit projections in the budget.
Other factors have to be taken into consideration.
All of it is stress and strain not only on the budget but the Canadian economic circumstance.
That is the way it is.
It is not looking at the circumstances if I have my head in the sand.
I am looking realistically at what is going to happen in the Canadian political system in the next few short months.
[Mrs. Jane Stewart (Brant):
Madam Speaker, I would like to comment on the hon. member's statements.
He is talking about his sense of realism.
I would like to share with him that yesterday morning at nine o'clock I received a call from a constituent who said that the government's budget is working.
He is an individual who looks for investment for Canadian projects.
He says we are turning the corner, that Canadians are showing a strong interest in spending money here and that the confidence of Canadian investors is increasing and growing rapidly as a result of the government's presence and policies.
When it comes to the issue of Quebec, I would say to the hon. member that we are not looking toward a future of doom and gloom.
We believe the people of Quebec want what every other Canadian wants: a good job.
By focusing on projects like the Canadian youth service corps and the infrastructure program we are telling the people of Quebec that yes, they should have confidence in the government because we are here to do what it is they want and that is find the people jobs.
Finally I would like to say that I have had meetings with people in my riding particularly with regard to the infrastructure program and the Canada youth service corps.
The degree of interest and desire for those programs is phenomenal.
There is a sense we cannot stand back, do nothing and just look at numbers.
As a government we have to find opportunities to create work in the short, medium and long term. I believe the programs we have outlined in the budget are going to do just that.
Mr. Speaker (Lethbridge):
Madam Speaker, I certainly hope there is that optimism and things will happen but the Reform Party believes that we must deal with the yearly deficit so that we get the cost of government down. In that way more dollars will be in the marketplace for private investment. This will create job opportunities and give confidence that the investment will be respected after it is made. Then investors will not lose all their profit and whatever to higher government taxes and higher government take.
That is what has to be stopped and we are trying to do that.
[Hon. Audrey McLaughlin (Yukon):
Madam Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the hon. member.
I noted in his motion that two particular programs are targeted by the Reform Party.
One is the youth services corps and the other is the court challenges program.
Is the hon. member aware that youth unemployment is very near the 20 per cent mark?
If we cannot provide hope for our youth then surely we have failed in the tasks we set ourselves as parliamentarians.
I am not sure why the hon. member would target youth in this way, saying it was not important that something should be special.
I am not commenting on the particular quality of this program, but I would say that the youth of our country deserve better than simply to be told there is no particular problem concerning youth.
Why does the hon. member ignore youth in this way? Why does his party not care about the youth of Canada?
Mr. Speaker (Lethbridge):
Madam Speaker, we absolutely do care about youth so they have job opportunities, so they can be independent, self-sufficient, and able to have a life outside being employed by government, or life outside government coming along after they create a business or have a profession, whereby 30 per cent of the take is taken by government.
We want to move away from that kind of an environment.
I have had experience with the Company of Young Canadians and a couple of other youth programs created by government.
They never created long term opportunity for our young people.
It is not the right way of doing things, to say that we are going to deal with jobs for young people.
It just does not satisfy a long term need.
It is an artificial, government created environment which is not sufficient and is not the highest priority in terms of job creation as far as we are concerned as the Reform Party.
Hon. Douglas Peters (Secretary of State (International Financial Institutions)):
Madam Speaker, I welcome the opportunity to respond to the motion put before the House by the hon. member of the opposition.
Let me say say that I appreciate the member's sincerity.
But while his intent may be positive it seems that his view of the government budget plan, the range of economic challenges we had to address has been blinkered by deficit myopia.
I say myopia because the real solution to Canada's debt and deficit situation will not come from short term and shortsighted hatchet work.
Amputation is no way to restore Canada's fiscal health.
We need a co-operative, consistent and comprehensive plan of action and that is what our February budget delivers.
The motion before us states baldly that ``the budget plan of this government is not a solution to Canada's debt and deficit problem''.
It follows this up by urging four steps including a moratorium on spending such as the $6 billion national infrastructure program.
I want to comment briefly on each of the unnecessary nostrums the motion advances.
First let me step back and remind the House of the concrete plan for deficit reduction we have put in place.
There need be no question about our objective. Our goal is to eliminate the deficit.
Our interim target is to reduce it to 3 per cent of GDP by 1996-97.
The budget puts us on a course to meet that target.
We will reduce the deficit to $39.7 billion in 1994-95, to $32.7 billion in 1995-96 and, with only moderate growth, to about $25 billion in 1996-97.
The motion before us intimates that these targets do not represent fast enough progress, but that view simply and dangerously chooses to ignore the destructive consequences that more drastic spending cuts would impose.
Canada's economy is still in recovery.
Unemployment remains unconscionably high.
Consumer and business confidence, although improving since the government was elected, cannot be called buoyant.
Industrial restructuring from the fisheries of the maritimes to the manufacturing heartland of Ontario to the farms and ranches of the prairies to the forests of B.C. remains a painful reality.
These are all part of the context within which our budget decisions were framed.
These challenges demand that the government play its part in helping restore economic vigour, in restoring national confidence and job creation.
They also demand that government continue to assist those in real need.
That is why our budget refused to take a slash and burn approach to government spending.
That is why we are reallocating funding to the infrastructure program and to residential rehabilitation, activities that do not merely create jobs on their own but act as a catalyst to further job creation and renewed optimism.
The budget recognizes that sustained deficit improvement can only be achieved in a growing and health economy, an economy that is equipped with the skills and technology to meet and beat the challenges of global competition in today's information age.
That is why the budget funds programs such as the youth services corps, the technology network and the engineers and scientists program that will help small business.
While the budget invests in jobs and renewed competitiveness it also applies, and I would like to underline this, the most significant net spending cuts of any budget in over a decade.
We are reducing departmental operating budgets and extending the salary freeze for Parliament and the public service.
The total savings from cuts in government operations will rise from $468 million in the coming fiscal year to $1.6 billion in 1996-97.
We are closing military bases and reducing other elements of defence infrastructure.
Combined with the cancellation of the EH-101 helicopter program, savings over the next three years will total some $3.6 billion.
We are renewing our unemployment insurance system in order to make it more effective, more fair and more affordable.
Savings here will reach $2.4 billion a year in 1995-96.
We are also looking to change other aspects of Canada's social security system to produce savings of $1.5 billion annually in provincial transfers.
Yes, these actions will take time to achieve their full weight, but we make no apologies for refusing to rush helter-skelter into cutting simply for the sake of cutting.
If that approach actually worked then the previous government's record would have been one of sustained deficit reduction instead of exactly the opposite.
It is the need for consistent, considered and co-operative action that explains why we have set future targets for savings in provincial transfers rather than imposing them overnight.
Again this is a lesson that the previous government failed to understand.
There is nothing to be gained by offloading the federal deficit on to Canada's provinces by unilaterally changing the structure of transfer payments the federal government makes to those provinces.
That simply shifts the debt from the federal ledger to a provincial one.
Instead we firmly believe the two levels of government must approach their respective challenges through co-operation.
That means consultation and deliberations before we act.
This is the strategy the budget embraces.
I should also say that we are encouraged by the fact there is an unprecedented consensus today both nationally and provincially on the need to bring deficits down.
Strong action is being taken across the country, and this will have a significant impact not simply on the federal deficit itself but on the national deficit overall.
That in the end must be the ultimate goal.
Some people have said that we should simply cut spending by 5 per cent across the board.
In a number of areas we went well beyond that and the results will be evident.
There are other reasons why simplistic across the board approaches do not work. This ties right back to a fundamental principle of the budget's approach to deficit reduction.
We do not believe that sustained success lies in treating symptoms that Canada needs to change.
That is why we have given notice of the need to modernize unemployment insurance and the federal-provincial social security system.
We believe that a new design can be more effective and less costly.
We have given ourselves and the provinces two years to succeed and have set out the minimum savings that must be achieved.
This needed change is not an option. It must happen and it will happen.
There are due dates. There are deadlines. There are firm fiscal targets.
This plan offers a real solution to Canada's fiscal challenges.
Let me emphasize this by drawing on some recent remarks by the Minister of Finance.
He said:
``We are not doing this simply to cut spending.
We are doing it because Canada needs a new architecture for a new economy on the verge of a new century.
But in the end the result is also going to be to get the financial monkey off our back.
That is going to be one of the legacies of this Canadian government to its people''.
To further explain our approach, I ask all hon. members to consider this.
In difficult times would any sensible company manager simply cut operations across the board or would cuts be deeper in some facets of an enterprise and less in other areas of strategic importance for further growth?
That requires prudent planning.
It requires strategic analysis and sensible commitment, and that is exactly what the government has done in the budget.
I believe my remarks offer real reasons why the motion before the House is unnecessary and ill-considered.
Let me just tie off some of the particular suggestions that the motion offers.
It urges a moratorium on all new spending, such as the youth service corps and the infrastructure program.
First, the motion fails to realize that virtually none of this is new spending.
These actions are being funded by savings elsewhere or reallocation of existing funds.
That is not the real flaw in the suggestion. As I stated earlier in my remarks, such spending is a bottom line investment in job creation, restored confidence and long term competitiveness of our economy.
Eliminating this investment would be a classic example of penny wise and pound foolish.
It would hold back the economic recovery that will be essential to long term deficit elimination and debt reduction.
Incidentally those who would be hurt by such spending cuts would be Canada's young people and small businesses, communities that government and all Canadians should be doing all they can to nurture.
I can hardly believe that punitive action here is what the hon. member really means by this motion.
The member's motion also proposes that the government establish effective spending caps.
The budget by definition sets spending targets that represent the caps the government intends to apply to spending.
The previous government legislated a more formal cap process. This did not prevent it from falling substantially off its deficit track by tens of billions of dollars.
Again the real answer to spending control is a consistent, comprehensive plan based on credible economic assumptions.
That is what the budget delivers.
The member's motion also proposes that the government produce quarterly reports on the progress being made on deficit reduction.
I am not sure if I understand or the member understands exactly what he is looking for.
The Department of Finance already produces monthly and quarterly fiscal reports covering the most recent data available on revenues and spending.
Perhaps he is not aware of that publication.
I should also point out that the Minister of Finance has committed to producing this fall a comprehensive statement laying out changes in Canada's economic and fiscal outlay.
This is a major departure from the past and will help ensure that all Canadians have a clear understanding of our fiscal process and whether further action is needed.
Finally, the motion before us refers to committing to ``corrective action using a spending contingency plan''.
I can see no reason why we need corrective action when there are no grounds to assume our plan will not deliver the objectives we have set out.
The member may not be aware that we did build into our fiscal projections increased contingencies to ensure that our fiscal targets would be met.
If the member had been attentive, he would have realized that our revenue assumptions are very prudent indeed and that our interest rate assumptions are very prudent as well.
The hon. member stated just a minute ago that political uncertainty is caused by elections.
Surely the hon. member believes in elections. If we did not have elections none of us would be here today.
However political uncertainty is certainly part of our democratic process.
In conclusion, all members concerned with regard to Canada's deficit and debt situation deserve an adequate response. It is a concern all of us in government share.
That is why the government in its first budget took action that was both balanced and courageous, action that is delivering results now but also looks to the future, action that takes aim at spending where appropriate but also works to strengthen the economy and job creation.
More people working and paying taxes and a more efficient government are needed to reduce the fiscal deficit and that is exactly what the government delivered in its first budget.
To me and to the government the bottom line is clear.
We have put in place a budget plan that is credible, realistic and responsible, a plan that meets the needs of Canadians today and for our national future.
There is no reason for the motion with its pessimism, scare tactics and myopia to pass.

[Translation]
Mr. Jean Landry (Lotbinière):
Madam Speaker, some of the measures  identified by the Reform Party to reduce the deficit and the debt seem quite interesting.
As far as the opposition parties are concerned, we  must reduce the deficit.
[English]

Mr. Speaker (Lethbridge):
I rise on a point of order, Madam Speaker.
Is it not the usual custom that following a member's remarks there is time for questions to that hon. member?
The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Ringuette-Maltais):
On the point of order, the Official Opposition has the first priority on questions.
Maybe the member could follow after.

[Translation]
Mr. Landry:
As far as the opposition is concerned, we must reduce  the deficit, but the latest Liberal budget raises some doubts as to the government's intentions.
Does it deal with the real problems?
The Liberals ignored the Auditor General's report.
During the past  three years, the Auditor General has identified waste and unnecessary spending, totalling at least $5 billion annually.
I will get back to  more obvious cases later on, but I would like to recall the real problems which the party in power was afraid to deal with.
Former  Quebec Revenue Minister Yves Séguin provided some good examples in an article published in Le Devoir on February 5, 1994.
The way resource profits in the energy sector are interpreted and  defined will cost Revenue Canada more than $1.2 billion, although a simple amendment could have prevented this tax loss.
But the worst part is, Madam Speaker, that the minimal deficit  reduction planned by the government will put a heavy burden on the provinces.
It was criticized recently by Pierre-Yves Crémieux, Pierre  Fortin and Marc Van Audenrode, all with the Economics Department at the University of Quebec in Montreal, when they discussed this passing of the federal buck to the provinces.
The government reduced its deficit  at the expense of the unemployed who, once their benefit periods have been cut, will have no choice but to go on welfare.
Just a few $280  million less for Quebec.
We have to agree with the Reform Party when it condemns the general  level of government spending.
Our colleagues, however, should also  respect the position taken by the Bloc Quebecois.
We have already said  that we want to reduce government spending and fiscal spending by $10 billion and inject half of this amount into job creation.
Getting rid of waste is not just a buzz word, it is a goal within  our reach.
Think about it!
This government would not have lasted long  in Sherwood Forest!
When we say waste, we are referring to all the  shortcomings mentioned by the Auditor General.
Investment Canada spent $132,000 on a new office with kitchen and  bathroom for its new president, although her predecessor's office, located in the same building, had the same amenities.
The cost of government travel using the Challenger jet fleet totalled $4  million, with more than half spent on trips by ministers.
According to the Auditor General, these figures represent a total  cost per flying hour of $19,650.
The federal vehicle fleet is worth  more than $500 million, with an additional 4,000 vehicles being purchased each year.
We could go on for hours with the list of horror  stories, Madam Speaker.
Look at the waste caused by interdepartmental overlap!
Staff and  equipment assigned to similar activities could be deployed more effectively.
The government mentioned setting up one-stop counters in  some departments to streamline internal operations, which is all very well, but watch out for undue administrative growth that might reduce an agency's effectiveness.
We all know what happens when bureaucracy gets out of hand.
Take  this example from the Auditor General's report concerning the Canadian Aboriginal Economic Development Strategy.
The CAED Strategy was to  invest $1 billion over a period of five years.
Three departments were  directly involved: the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, the Department of Industry and the Department of Immigration.
The purpose was to reduce disparities between aboriginal peoples  and Canadians.
The strategy's objective was to help aboriginal peoples  achieve economic self-reliance.
In 1993, $900 million was spent under this strategy.
The Auditor  General deplored the lack of coordination between the three departments.
According to the Auditor General, it was not clear who was to provide  leadership in implementing the strategy.
The departments concerned were supposed to co-ordinate the strategy and  provide for an evaluation mechanism.
This mechanism was not put in place until 1993.
I agree with the reduction of all government expenses providing, I  repeat, that the cuts in government and fiscal spending reach $10 billion and that half the savings are injected in job creation.
What I  am saying is stop wasting public money.
You want examples? Here is a few.
Anyone giving money to a  charitable organization want to know whether the money is used to reach the stated goals.
This is only natural, Madam Speaker, and this applies  to the government as well.
However, in this case, we are not talking  dollars, we are talking billions spent without any evaluation of the expected return on the investment in given projects.
I was saying that we are all careful with the way we spend or give  away our money, we want to be sure that it will be used properly, but grants are allocated by the government without making sure that the stated objectives are reached.
We could at least make sure those grants  to companies will create jobs.
Coming back to the example I was mentioning earlier, the government  spent $900 million, in 1993, for the Canadian Aboriginal Economic Development Strategy.
The Auditor General is telling us that there are  few ways we can measure the efficiency of the strategy.
Would I give a  lot of money to a friend without knowing what he was going to do with it?
Not me, but the government does.
The Auditor General says that it is not possible to determine the  impact of the strategy.
For example, in 1992, the Department of Indian  Affairs gave $20 million to 73 economic development entities in native communities it considers fully developed.
Almost $33 million more were spent on 296 less developed community  organizations.
The Auditor General is asking that these program control and  assessment measures be put in place.
It is not a mystery, Madam Speaker.
The government prefers to attack the unemployed and the old people,  which is less complicated.
Yet, all they have to do is to better manage  public funds so that we can see concrete results in the whole Canadian economy.
In the aforementioned example, we talk about the Department of  Indian Affairs, and the same goes for all other areas.
We do not know  which real benefits came from the strategy activities.
We do not know if  funds were spent in accordance with aboriginal people's priorities.
We  do not know if there is a more effective way of getting the same results.
Yet, it is possible to reduce operating expenses.
Let us open the Report of the Auditor General at any page.
Here, in  November 1992, a consulting firm did an operational examination of the Department of Public Works.
According to these experts, the Department  could save annually $63 million to $68 million by March 31, 1997.
These  savings would come mainly from business planning and management and support activities.
The government must stop trying to fool people when it speaks of  cutting the fat.
I think there are still a lot of areas where we could  cut spending, and people have had enough of lies.
They know that the  government will still take the money out of their pockets instead of reducing the big government machine.
In conclusion, I would like to examine the last point of the Reform  party's motion.
Our colleagues want the government to develop a  spending contingency plan.
I suggest they adopt the Bloc's position  concerning the creation of a parliamentary committee which would examine government expenditures one item at a time.
My colleague, the member  for Shefford, will present another point of view later on, but we have said time and again that such a committee is absolutely necessary and we will keep on saying so till the situation is corrected.
It is the responsibility of members elected by voters who trusted  them to represent them effectively and keep an eye on such brazen squandering of public funds.
The members of this House and of some  committees are better suited for such a task than the civil servants since they are accountable to those who elected them.
They would see to it that the various programs really reach their  targets and that the government manages public funds with equity, effectiveness and thrift.
I know the present government has some reservations concerning our  proposal for the creation of such a committee which would examine and review government expenditures item by item.
The Liberals have  suggested we expand the mandate of the Public Accounts Committee.
We  would agree, but only if the rules governing the committee are modified.
Our party insists on giving the Public Accounts Committee the  following terms ef reference: to analyze and examine the whole of government spending, item by item, in order to present to the House a review of various programs, with the power to gather any information or financial data necessary to carry out its mandate. Officials and  political staff members of departments and Crown corporations should be obliged to testify in front of the committee if asked to do so and give it all the information requested.
I think that would be the fair way to  go about it.
A consensus seems to be possible.
The Reform Party wants to develop  a government spending management plan, and we would accept such a proposal under the conditions I just mentioned.
For once, we should set  an example and agree about it.
[English]

The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Maheu):
Before going to questions and comments to the member for Lotbinière we will be returning to questions and comments to the hon. Secretary of State for International Financial Institutions.
[Mr. Ray Speaker (Lethbridge):
Madam Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for International Financial Institutions.
In terms of monitoring the budget as it progresses from today into the fiscal year, what mechanisms are in place that trigger the government to come back to this assembly to deal with such problems as revenue projections off track?
That could happen on the basis of two things. The first is the cigarette tax reduction and the potential reduction in taxes on liquor across this nation.
There is tremendous pressure for that.
Second, marketplace interest rates increase significantly. Because of those two factors we would see our deficit moving from $39.7 billion to over the $40 billion mark.
What mechanisms are in place to trigger a reaction by the government in the House?
I want to say two more things to the minister.
First, I appreciate we are going to have a review this fall, but that is a long time into the fiscal year to wait to react.
Second, the concern I have with regard to the government's approach is that there were much appreciated cuts but at the same time they were replaced by new expenditures.
I do not feel this really came to grips with fiscal accountability.
I would appreciate the minister's remarking on the question and the remarks.
Hon. Douglas Peters (Secretary of State (International Financial Institutions)):
Madam Speaker, there are a number of items in the question.
On monitoring the revenue projections and the expenditures, this is done very easily by the publications put out monthly and quarterly by the Department of Finance. These are published and made available widely across the country.
Any member can follow those projections easily.
The question of whether the revenue projections will be off track is a question that concerned us in the preparation of the budget.
That is why we took a very prudent view of the forecasts this year.
We took the lower end of the private sector forecasts. The private sector forecasts for this year ranged from 2.9 per cent to 4.3 per cent economic growth.
We took a 3 per cent number in our projections and we did the same lower estimates for future years as well.
These are very prudent projections.
These are taken at the low end.
It is very likely that our revenue projections will be low, not high. It is very likely that our spending projections will be in line or lower as well.
As far as interest rates are concerned, the interest rate projections we used are again very prudent, we assumed higher than private sector estimates presented to us in December and since then by the groups of private sector economists.
I have spent 27 years looking at interest rate forecasts. Believe me, if the hon. member would like to tell me exactly what interests rates are going to be over the next 12 months, I would be glad to listen.
If he did know he would not be sitting in the House. He would be out making himself a few million dollars.
I guess my message is we do not know what interest rates are going to be over the next year.
Nobody does.
We make a very prudent estimate of what they are.
We have set aside funds to look after any errors on them. We will very likely come in on a deficit number well under the number we have projected.

[Translation]
[Hon. Audrey McLaughlin (Yukon):
Madam Speaker, I listened  carefully to the hon. member.
I have one question and one comment  relating to the part where he said that the government has set firm fiscal targets--I believe these are the words he used.
Given the debt and the deficit we are faced with, it is of  paramount importance to set firm targets when it comes to taxation, but at the same time he mentioned revenues.
I would like to ask the member if its really possible to get the debt  and the deficit under control without creating more jobs, since it is obvious that the lack of revenue is directly linked with the present unemployment rate.
Does the hon. member agree that it is as important for the  government to set targets, in its forecasts, regarding job creation and the reduction of the debt and the deficit, and to balance them, giving people a chance to examine the government's agenda and its targets concerning unemployment?
[English]

Mr. Peters:
Madam Speaker, the question raised by the hon. member is an interesting one.
We did face those questions squarely in the budget.
There are definitely spending cuts but there are also job creation programs.
It was a balanced approach of both job creation and fiscal responsibility.
It was done because that was the only way that one could achieve an adequate result in deficit reduction.
The Reform Party's program that simply slashes and cuts will not work because it will backfire and we will get higher unemployment.
We need a combination. We need to get both the jobs to pay the taxes and an efficient government.
As far as providing targets for unemployment, that is an interesting proposal. It is very difficult to target that item. There are so many variables that enter into the unemployment numbers.
We are looking at an unemployment rate that has dropped marginally since this government took office, but it is still very high.
If one adds to that the discouraged worker effects and the other effects, one will probably get an unemployment rate close to 15 per cent which is a terrible number.
The speed with which the discouraged workers return to the workforce is unknown.
It is very difficult to forecast that number.
Therefore we could have a sharp drop in the unemployment rate and still many discouraged workers or we could have the discouraged workers moving very quickly into the workforce and have rising unemployment even though job creation was growing at a substantial rate.
We do not have a target in that but my personal feeling is that the only acceptable target for any political party is that every Canadian looking for work should have a job available to them.
That is a long way off but that is the political target.
The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Maheu):
I would like to direct the question and comment session now to the hon. member for Lotbinière.

[Mr. Ray Speaker (Lethbridge):
Madam Speaker, to the hon. member for Lotbinière, in my remarks earlier today I made the point that the Quebec election followed by a potential referendum would have a major effect on the 1994-95 fiscal budget of the Government of Canada.
The comment of the hon. minister was that we will have an election and that is the normal process in our democracy in Canada.
I can agree with that. It is true but this is rather an abnormal and unusual circumstance that would be an aberration in the election process and how the election process would affect the budget or the economy of our nation.
I would appreciate a comment from the member on how he sees the current 1994-95 budget affected by an election in Quebec and the position of his party with regard to an independent Quebec.

[Translation]
Mr. Landry:
Madam Speaker, obviously an election is looming on the  horizon in Quebec and clearly a major movement is emerging at the present time in the province.
I listened to my colleague speak of  democracy and I believe that in Quebec there is also a similar process of democracy.
In the upcoming election and referendum, the people will  be called upon to make a choice, always through a democratic process.
When the hon. member speaks of a strain on the economy, I for one  do not believe that the economy will suffer.
The hon. member must know  that the federal government and the provinces have been examining for some time now the issue of overlap and duplication.
It is not a  question of saying that Quebec wants to separate.
That is not the point  at all.
You can rest assured that when Quebec decides democratically to  become sovereign--you can forget the word separation because since coming to this House, all we hear is separation and we are not separatists at all--you can rest assured that when Quebec decides to take charge of its own destiny as a nation, an economic union will be forged.
This fact is never mentioned.
It goes without saying that there  will be an economic union and I believe that this will be an extremely positive development.
Let me tell you something.
When I was a boy, my father travelled across  Canada, from east to west, doing business.
When he would return from  conferences in the west, from Vancouver and elsewhere, he would say to me:
``Jean, do you know which regions are the most  separatist-minded?''
I would answer:
``No, dad, which ones?''
And he would say:
``The western  regions.
I have just returned from a three-day, or one-week, business  trip out west.''
Believe me when I say that this is our goal. From an economic and  monetary standpoint, we want to assure you--and this is one of the reasons why the leader of our party went to the United States, to reassure the Americans--that there will be no barriers or borders, as there were between East Germany and West Germany.
Right now, we already  have tariff barriers between Quebec and Ontario or the other Canadian provinces and I would like to see these barriers removed.
Quebec wants  to do away with them.
If we can eliminate these barriers while acting as serious, honest  individuals, and if can make the people of Canada and Quebec understand  Quebec's economic viewpoint and resources, we can be good friends and partners.
Personally, I will always work with Canada and Quebec.
Rest  assured that I will be honest and frank.
If we explain our position  clearly, all Canadians and Quebecers will be reassured.
[English]

Mr. Monte Solberg (Medicine Hat):
Madam Speaker, I rise in response to the challenges which were laid out but sadly not met by the finance minister in his budget speech and to speak in favour of the motion that is now before the House.
Canada's federal debt has given birth to the vandals that ravage the Canadian economy: bankruptcy, ruinous taxation, crumbling social programs and dehumanizing unemployment.
Interest payments on the debt consume a third of every tax dollar from taxpayers who already among the highest taxed people in the world.
Our level of foreign debt for all levels of government now approaches 50 per cent.
We are particularly vulnerable to financial chaos should investors grow concerned about our stability and withdraw their funds.
They are concerned. Thus our soft underbelly lies exposed.
Time after time bond rating services caution us about getting our spending under control.
Two provinces, Saskatchewan and Newfoundland, teeter on the brink of fiscal crisis.
Canadian investors vote with dollars, and with the stability of our economy in question they are increasingly looking south, to Europe and to the Pacific Rim to invest their money or they move their trade to the underground economy beyond the maw of the insatiable tax man.
Meanwhile the uncertainty that surrounds the future of Quebec has driven up the premium that investors demand on their money to the point at which some analysts say we pay an extra $6 billion a year in interest on the debt.
As always those investors are ready to flee our country to more capital friendly regimes at the very first sign of trouble.
This is the grim reality unadorned by the charming optimism that informed the minister's budget speech.
The budget merely tinkers with the problem of the deficit.
Some mild spending cuts, some tax increases and a lot of luck will leave us with a still untenable $40 billion deficit.
To be kind, it is an effort that is left wanting.
I hasten to point out that the government deserves congratulations in a few of the measures it has taken.
Apparently it is no longer politically incorrect as it was during the election to suggest that social programs need not be universal.
The reduction of UI benefits for some, the targeting of benefits for others and the subsequent removal of January's UI premium hike are all welcome moves. In their modest ways they will improve the economy.
However much more needs to be done to mollify the fears of investors, both domestic and foreign, and of taxpayers to encourage them to stay in Canada and to remain in the above-ground economy.
The Reform plan focuses on judicious and humane spending cuts, cuts first to the top levels of government starting with MPs and senators.
Including but not limited to it would be immediate and radical reform of MPs pensions. This pension plan is so unjust and so motivated by greed it is beyond belief that the Prime Minister has feebly attempted to defend it on several occasions in this place.
We advocate cuts to grants and subsidies for big business and special interests.
We advocate the targeting of social programs to those most in need with the retention of the present levels of funding for education, health care and the core of the pension programs.
We also advocate that unemployment insurance be administered and funded solely by employers and employees on an equal basis.
The effect of these cuts to government operations, the elimination of subsidies and grants and targeted social spending would be to reduce spending by about $20 billion a year.
This combined with growth in the economy would bring us to a balanced budget or close to it after three years.
Naturally we therefore support a cap on spending as is advocated in this motion.
We support the elimination of the infrastructure program and the other measures listed in this motion.
Let me talk more specifically about a single department and the measures which can be undertaken in that one area to bring spending under control.
As a member of the Canadian heritage committee I am aghast that this department was almost completely overlooked in the government's initiative to cut spending.
It is no exaggeration to say that no other department has more vague, nebulous and implausible objectives than this one.
Building understanding, striving for equality, preserving one's culture and appreciating our Canadian heritage are all noble goals and things we should all strive for as individuals.
Generally speaking however these are areas where government is in way over its head.
Despite the billions and billions of dollars spent on official bilingualism in this country there are no more and perhaps fewer bilingual Canadians than 20 years ago.
This is a failure by any standard.
Because Canadians resent the heavy hand of government, official bilingualism has served to divide us along linguistic lines.
Despite the hundreds of millions of dollars poured into official multiculturalism, racial tensions are hitting new heights.
That is also a failure by any standard.
The sense that government favours certain minorities serves to divide us along racial lines.
Despite the billions of dollars poured into subsidizing and protecting Canadian culture, more and more we see Canadians gobbling up American TV, music and movies.
Even CBC TV has acquiesced. With great embarrassment I am sure, it is forced to run American sitcoms to capture viewers.
This too, by any conceivable standard, is a failure on a grand scale.
Just as important, Canadians are left to assume that this government intervention must mean our culture is inferior to culture from elsewhere. Or again, they simply resent the government's show of favouritism to the selected few, harbour their grudges and thus another division is created.
Why in the world does the government continue down this path that is so littered with failure?
The $2.8 billion spent in the Department of Canadian Heritage could be cut by two-thirds.
Average Canadians not only would not be hurt by it, they would probably stand and cheer out of gratitude for the tax dollars it would save them.
The problem is as plain as the nose on the Prime Minister's face.
We have a very serious problem of overspending in the federal government.
Our country is haemorrhaging red ink.
Let us not be fooled by a temporary upturn in our economic fortunes.
The next few months may signal a stronger economy but to assume that the economic battle has been won is just whistling in the dark.
The debt is always lurking nearby ready to drag us down at the first opportunity.
I ask the government to acknowledge the obvious problems I point to and to act immediately to reduce its overall spending in accordance with the motion before us.
I neglected to mention at the beginning of my talk that I would like the time to be divided pursuant to Standing Order 43(2).
Mr. Jim Abbott (Kootenay East):
Madam Speaker, the media entrepreneur, Ted Turner of CNN fame, has a plaque on his desk which reads:
``You can lead or you can follow, but if you are not going to lead, get out of the way''.
I want to speak about leadership.
There is a leadership vacuum in this country on the issue of compliance with taxation rules.
Canadians have lost confidence in the ability of their governments to get spending under control. Therefore they have increasingly turned their backs on tax compliance and instead have become involved in aggressive tax avoidance. Tax avoidance takes place illegally and legally, but why would Canadians have reached the point of being prepared to break the law and potentially suffer the consequences?
Let me make my position very clear.
I am not in any way condoning or excusing tax avoidance.
If the government does not have the income then providing services to people and even the servicing of our national debt will become impossible.
Furthermore, if we do not have respect for the laws of Canada, including taxation laws then we have anarchy.
Therefore the epidemic of tax avoidance is an issue far larger than the issue of missing revenue.
We need to have leadership by example. We must show ordinary Canadians that people involved in the political process, members of Parliament, members of the government, cabinet ministers, are prepared to lead by example.
Many of us in this House are aware of single income families where the homemaker babysits one or two of the neighbour's kids but does not declare the income. There are housekeepers who clean the homes and toilets of others but again are not declaring the income.
We are also aware of tradesmen who are avoiding the GST, in fact any taxation, simply by not declaring the value of their work.
These people need to be shown sacrifice and leadership by members of the House of Commons, including the cabinet.
That is all part of the so-called underground economy.
It is growing at a phenomenal rate.
Yet the vast majority of these people desire to be law abiding citizens. In all other areas of their lives they obey the laws of Canada.
So I ask: Who is going to lead them?
Many businesses have a friendly, approachable and helpful demeanour toward their customers and clients. This helpfulness is carried out by the staff.
Can you imagine that the president of the company is not also friendly, approachable and helpful?
In other words, the staff takes the lead from the example set by the chief executive officer.
If a firm is open, honest and straightforward in its dealings with suppliers, the government and its customers, we can safely assume the leadership of the firm will also be honest and straightforward.
The bottom line is that Canadians are prepared to comply with reasonable tax laws, reasonable laws respecting taxation.
When members of this House and the government lead by example, Canadians will follow.
This is the reason the Reform Party has the unrelenting objective of straightening up the MPs pension plan.
The Liberal red book specifically states:
The most important asset of government is the confidence it enjoys of the citizens to whom it is accountable.
If government is to play a positive role in society, as it must, honesty and integrity in our political institutions must be restored.
Whether by accident or design, politicians from the House have historically told Canadians that the MPs pension plan did not cost the Canadian taxpayer any money, that it was self-funding.
Any reasonable individual looking at the numbers concluded that members were mistaken in their assertions.
It would be impossible to support the luxury of the MPs plan solely from the members' contributions.
Only two weeks ago it was revealed that in 1992 Canadians forked over $158 million to top up the MPs pension plan and a further $12 million in 1993.
The Canadian public is rightfully outraged at this excessiveness but are beyond outrage when they understand they have been duped.
As recently as the election the former member for Kootenay East was protesting loud and long that his pension plan was fair and reasonable.
Yet the Prime Minister has said in the House he would correct the situation sometime before the next election. That is some time in the next four years.
Is it only during elections that members of Parliament are answerable to Canadians or listen to them?
If Canadians are looking for leadership by example why will the Prime Minister not immediately alter the MPs pension plan to reflect a pension plan that would be available to any other member of the public?
There must be leadership by example. Members of Parliament who choose to stonewall this issue in my judgment are doing a major disservice to this parliamentary institution.
We have spoken today about illegal tax avoidance.
I would like to raise the issue of legal tax avoidance as shown in a newspaper article by Tim Naumetz of Sterling News Service.
This very solidly falls under the issue of leadership by example.
In documents filed under the conflict of interest and post-employment code for public office holders a cabinet minister has revealed he has six companies registered in Liberia among his many holdings.
Let me make my position crystal clear on this issue.
I am not stating nor suggesting or even implying there is any legal wrongdoing on the part of this cabinet minister.
I also recognize the practices illustrated here may very well be standard practices in the shipping business.
However within the shipping business I ask why ships are registered in Bermuda and Liberia rather than in Canada.
That is just one example of legal tax avoidance which brings into question the whole issue of fairness in our tax system.
The Acting Speaker (Mrs. Maheu):
I would remind the member that the tack he has been taking is very borderline with regard to parliamentary procedure and acceptable parliamentary conversation.
Would the hon. member please be careful.
Mr. Abbott:
Thank you, Madam Speaker, I will dispense with the balance of my speech in deference to your advice save to conclude if I may.
Canadians rightfully are looking for parliamentarians to lead by example.
At the end of the day, unless there are substantial changes on the part of the majority of members of Parliament and members of the cabinet in the next four years, Canadians will rise up and say in a very loud voice:
You can lead or you can follow, but if you are not going to lead get out of the way.
[Mrs. Dianne Brushett (Cumberland--Colchester):
Madam Speaker, in response to the two hon. members who have just spoken I suggest that the 400,000 youth who have been unemployed for the last two years are looking for employment.
The budget deals with that in creating the youth corps.
The infrastructure program which is in progress arose out of concerns for municipalities which cannot fund the infrastructure work alone.
The rehabilitation assistance program has arisen out of the needs of seniors on fixed incomes.
That is why this budget addresses fair, realistic approaches to all Canadians. Today's headline is:  ``66,000 jobs return''.
That is leadership and it is coming from this government.
Mr. Abbott:
Madam Speaker, I suggest that the youth of the country may very well hold this government accountable for the fact that it is passing on the spending of today to Canadian citizens to be paid for out of their income at some future point in time.
Constant deficit spending absolutely ties down and chains up the present youth of Canada.
Hon. David Dingwall (Minister of Public Works and Government Services and Minister for the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency):
Madam Speaker, before I begin my remarks in this debate, I wish to convey my sincere congratulations to you on your elevation to the chair.
I wish you luck in your deliberations over the next number of years.
As you probably recall, Madam Speaker, in another Parliament I had some familiarity with opposition motions.
While in opposition we would examine the policies of the government and of course make our pronouncements and our suggestions to the House and to the Canadian people.
One thing I learned as an opposition member in drafting opposition motions is that if we have something to say, something shall we say substantive, we come to the point and we say it.
I do not wish to question the efficacy of the length of the votable opposition motion here today, but I see it has a preamble, a part (a), part (b), part (c) and part (d).
I see that part (a) has several subparts:  one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
If one really has something substantive to say to the Canadian people, it does not necessarily follow that one has to use all those words to say exactly what one means.
The distinguished member who moved the motion has a long public career in the politics of this nation and in particular in the politics of one province.
I am disappointed that he would bring forward such a votable motion.
I thought he would have taken the route of putting something which is very clear, very substantive on the floor of the House of Commons and then give us his view.
I heard his colleague moments ago. I did not bring into question the issue of relevancy which is covered by the standing orders, but it had very little to do with the motion which was before us.
It leads me to conclude, and I may be wrong because I have been wrong on occasion before--
Some hon. members:
Oh, oh.
Mr. Dingwall:
Well, okay, I have never been wrong.
Surely an opposition party wishing to become the national Government of Canada did not have to put all of those words.
It could have been clear and unequivocal unless of course one is trying to use the shotgun approach.
I am saddened that hon. members opposite have seen fit to bring forward this particular motion and focus on an element of society who look to governments, and note I use the plural and not the singular word, for assistance.
They sit in their wonderful parliamentary offices.
They eat food from the parliamentary restaurants.
They take their fat paycheques home to their constituencies.
They wear their Gucci shoes, their Boss suits and their tailor made shirts, but they are the first crowd to say to low income Canadians that they want to do away with the RRAP, a rehabilitation program for people on low incomes.
What sort of intestinal fortitude do members opposite have to do that?
Hon. members have had their say and as sure as God is our creator, I am going to have my say.
They can yell and catcall all they wish but the point remains that members of the Reform Party stand in this House and mould expressions with regard to assisting Canadians on one hand and then stand in their place and do the exact opposite, which is to take away from those Canadians who deserve assistance, leadership and the compassion of the Government of Canada as well as all other governments across this country.
Part of this mammoth opposition motion that one could never put on a marquis, that one could never get into a one-line sentence, says that they want to get rid of the RRAP.
That is one thing they want to do.
What is the other?
They want to get rid of the national infrastructure program.
Perhaps hon. members later in the discourse will have an opportunity to rise in their place and correct the record, but I thought when the Reform Party talks about democracy and the will of the Canadian people, that was paramount in their deliberations.
That is what they say on Fridays but on Mondays it is a different thing.
Today they want to rid us of the national infrastructure program.
Provincial governments, municipal governments, numerous councillors in every region of Canada, and provincial MLAs commissioned by votes in the respective legislatures support overwhelmingly the objectives of the national infrastructure program, but we have here today the Reform Party members once again speaking out of both sides of their mouth, saying on Friday that democracy and the will of the people is paramount, but when the Government of Canada delivers the goods with regard to servicing that constituency, it is they and they alone who protest.
I suggest there is a reason for that confined to opposition parties, particularly those that are on the rump side of the House and not necessarily the official opposition, which is to try to play all sides and cater to all sides whenever convenient.
Hon. members must realize that members on this side of the House, provincial governments, municipalities, individuals, construction companies, reasonable Canadians both young and old support overwhelmingly the national infrastructure program.
The hon. member will rise in his place and provide us with a quote that says that so and so from somewhere in Canada is opposed. However the fact remains that Canadians overwhelmingly support the national infrastructure program.
I say to the Reform Party members that if they do not want moneys spent in their constituencies as they relate to the national infrastructure program and if they have their province on side, why do they not do the honourable thing?
Why do they not stand in their place and say to the people of their riding that there are no moneys in this area of Canada for the national infrastructure program?
That is if they have the intestinal fortitude.
I ask the hon. member opposite who reads his book, reads his ``Quorum'', flips his glasses, who wishes to catcall from his seat:  ``Do you have the intestinal fortitude to turn it down?''
The hon. member will have an opportunity later to give us his answer.
I say to the hon. member through you, Madam Speaker, that there are numerous members on this side of the House who will take that money and spend it on behalf of Canadians.
I am always reluctant to enter into debate, but I have to say on the floor of the House of Commons in terms of the motion that is before us that there are two things on which I would like to comment as they relate to this mammoth opposition motion.
Third is the youth services corps.
This is the same crowd that puts their hands over their chests, stand on guard for Canada, and say they are all in favour of motherhood and apple pie, which I am too.
However, when it comes to providing some economic assistance to youth in this country, who are the first to oppose it?
The Reform Party of Canada.
Perhaps I am incorrect.
Perhaps it really is not the Reform Party of Canada.
Perhaps it is just the Reform Party that happens to represent an area of Canada and not all of Canada.
That is the issue.

[Translation]
This government's vision of Canada includes all Canadians,  irrespective of their income, their language or their social status.
Our  vision is that of a country where everyone enjoys some quality of life, a country where we are responsible for the well-being of others and where people still have hope both for themselves and for their children.
There is no doubt in my mind that this vision is tied to the  provision of decent housing to all Canadians.
Also, there is no question  of excluding certain people from this vision just on account of the fact that they need help to meet their basic housing needs.
[English]

I am saddened that members opposite would use this opportunity, a privilege which I would say to the mover of the motion is only granted to a select few Canadians who have earned the right to sit in this Chamber and voice the concerns they believe to be important in public policy matters affecting this nation.
I for one would never, ever disagree with hon. members opposite exercising that fundamental right.
But having agreed to exercise that right, do not be fooled into thinking that those of us on this side of the House are consenting or in any way agreeing with the public musings nor the contents of the resolution which has been put forward by the Reform Party of Canada.
We in the Liberal Party oppose now and will continue to oppose these Draconian, inarticulate, vague concepts of public policy as they confront Canada.
The hon. member may laugh.
He has that right.
I say to him that those who have been elected to this side of the House also have the right to stand in this place and stand for Canadians who want assistance, leadership and economic activity from their government.
In this recent budget we have provided that leadership and we have provided that direction.
I find it unacceptable for members of the Reform Party to waltz in here and put a motion before the people of Canada which I suggest is nothing more than griping at its best.
They have not provided alternatives.
They have not spoken to the real issues which affect Canadians.
Yes, deficits are important, but it is not the only thing that confronts Canadians.
To suggest otherwise is being totally irresponsible as a member of an opposition party.
It would be equally irresponsible for those of us on this side of the House not to talk about deficits.
We have talked about deficits.
We said in the campaign, in the throne speech and now in the budget that all of our commitments in the red book have now been put into effect and we are moving in the direction we said we would with regard to deficit control.
I find it unacceptable that a seasoned member who has experience in public life would raise on the floor of the House of Commons the chopping of our youth, chopping our senior citizens and low income Canadians and dissipating and doing away with the national infrastructure program which is a program needed, wanted and delivered by the government.
I want to talk about several other issues since hon. members dared to tread that line.
They talked about pensions.
They said:  ``How terrible it is for members of Parliament to receive pensions''.
The Prime Minister said clearly and unequivocally: ``Yes, that matter will be addressed''.
However, was that sufficient enough for members of the Reform Party?
No that was not sufficient enough.
They continuously raise the issue of pension reform when they know the matter is being given due consideration by the appropriate authorities and at that time they will have an opportunity to address that particular issue.
However, what do we hear?
We hear that if this is not corrected the heavens will fall and the country will disappear.
That is the way in which they paint the issue.
That is not to suggest that the hon. member's points deserve consideration. Again, as I said with the national infrastructure program, they should be careful and prudent in the way in which they present their arguments because a number of Canadians perceive, perhaps quite rightly and or indeed quite wrongly, that the Reform Party is nothing--these are not my words and I want to be very clear because I do not wish to be unparliamentary--more than a bunch of antis:  anti-immigration, anti-French, anti-regional development, anti-seniors, anti-women, anti-youth.
That may be unfair or it may be fair, it could be unfair but then again it may be fair.
These are not my words, that is what Canadians tell me from time to time as I travel the country.
Let us not be unfair.
Let us be fair and let us say that the resolution which the hon. member put down is not deserving of the support of members on this side of the House. It is not deserving of support of members on that side of the House. Certainly it is not deserving of the support of the member's own political party.
I am sure that in exercising their free vote they want to be fair, not unfair.
They will exercise their free vote and they will vote against this particular resolution put forward by my colleague opposite.
Finally, in closing--I will probably get a few questions, at least I hope I will--I want to say to members opposite that when they are developing an opposition motion they should give it some more thought, do their homework, go back and think what it is they want to accomplish.
Do not put it in vague terminology; long, windy, whiny sentences.
Do not do that.
Their grade seven English teacher, my grade seven English teacher, would tell us that when we are writing a composition or a resolution.
Chop it down, be focused, be specific before bringing opposition motions before the House of Commons for adjudication by members and ultimately by the people of Canada.
But to say, as the hon. member did in his remarks, and to imply in the resolution that somehow it is low income Canadians who benefit from RRAP, that somehow it is disabled Canadians who benefit from the residential rehabilitation assistance program, are the cause of the deficit, that they, the weakest members of our society, should not have leadership from their governments, is a pretty gutless way really to represent Canadians.
I mean there is nothing tough, is there?
Is there anything tough? Is there anything really tough about saying this to senior citizens who happen to be disabled?
I will close with this message.
Today I received a letter from a lady who has multiple sclerosis, and she is going to be a beneficiary of the RRAP disabled program announced by the Minister of Finance.
If the hon. member is saying to those kinds of Canadians that yes, they are the ones that we want to chop off and that yes, they are the ones who do not deserve any attention from the Government of Canada, let him say it.
Do not do it in a phony motion, comprised of many words written by some staffer in the back rooms of his political party.
Have the intestinal fortitude to come to the floor of the House of Commons and say to disabled Canadians, low income Canadians, the youth, the municipalities, councillors across this country that the programs we put into effect are not necessary and are not needed by Canadians.
If not, the hon. member should do the honourable thing.
[Mr. Jean-Paul Marchand (Québec-Est):
Madam Speaker, I have a very brief question.
I am very impressed by the form of the speech from the minister, maybe not the content but certainly the form.
I was just wondering whether he has recently made an application to join the Shakespearian troupe in Stratford.
Mr. Dingwall:
I will keep it in mind.
[Mr. Ken Epp (Elk Island):
Madam Speaker, I appreciated very much the presentation of the member opposite, particularly I enjoyed his lesson on the use of brevity of words.
That was very interesting to me.
I would like to make a comment.
He mentioned that we are here to represent our constituents and he gave us a little bit of a tirade about how we are misrepresenting this democratic responsibility.
I report to the House that I represent my constituents when I support a motion like this one.
I have had people express to me great concern about the amount of debt and deficit.
I have had people tell me that they do not support the infrastructure program but they feel blackmailed by a federal government which with a $2 billion commitment has forced a province to match it and the municipalities to match it.
They are opposed to going into further debt and they are opposed to further borrowing.
Consequently I do represent my constituents when I say we want to put a cap on spending. We want to reduce it.
I had a conversation with one of my constituents this weekend in which we discussed this point.
I did a little calculation and found that a deficit of $40 billion is taking us into debt in this year alone to the amount of $500 per family per month and that is a huge concern.
I believe I have used my time allotment and I will stop.
Mr. Dingwall:
Madam Speaker, that was an excellent intervention by the hon. member for Elk Island.
I am sorry, because the hon. member has just given, and I know it was not intentional, facts to the House from his particular vantage point. The hon. member should check the record.
The national infrastructure program was not the creature of national political parties.
The national infrastructure program came from municipalities en masse in all of the provinces and territories.
The hon. member shakes his head.
If his particular province does not wish to take part in the national infrastructure program he should have said that to his premier who signed on the dotted line on December 21, 1993.
Furthermore, the hon. member has made reference to representing his constituents.
I applaud the hon. member for representing his constituents.
I say to the hon. member that he was not elected to be a weather vane, to check the political winds to see whether they like this or they like that.
Since my colleague is a great student of Shakespeare, his colleague might be a great student of one of the great philosophers Edmund Burke who said:
``You owe your constituency and constituents much more than your industry.
You owe them your judgment''.
It is our judgment as a national political party that a national infrastructure program is needed by Canadians, wanted by Canadians and we as a national political party are delivering on that commitment.
The Speaker:
It being two o'clock p.m., the House will now proceed to statements by members, pursuant to Standing Order 31.
S. O. 31
STATEMENTS BY MEMBERS
[English]

Labour Force Survey
Mr. Sarkis Assadourian (Don Valley North):
Mr. Speaker, my statement today is under the heading ``Good news gets better with the Liberal government''.
I am extremely happy to rise at this moment to make mention of a few encouraging points from last month's labour force survey.
The survey has indicated a decrease in the unemployment rate while an increase in the help wanted index has grown.
The help wanted index of job advertisements rose for the fourth time in the last five months, the largest increase of the recovery.
I was particularly encouraged by the strong gains in employment in sectors that had experienced recent declines, such as manufacturing and retail trades.
The other good news is that all regions of the country experienced growth in the employment rate.
In my province of Ontario alone 11,000 new jobs were created.
The government's commitment is to put--

[Translation]
Alpine Skiing
Mr. Michel Guimond (Beauport--Montmorency--Orléans):
Mr. Speaker,  on behalf of all Quebecers, I would like to extend today my heartfelt congratulations to one of our own athletes who won the giant slalom yesterday at the world junior alpine skiing championships in Lake Placid.
I am referring to, you have guessed it, young Mélanie Turgeon.
It was not Mélanie's first medal of the championships either.
She  had already made the podium twice before; first winning a silver medal in Super G, and then bronze in downhill.
Yesterday's victory puts Mélanie in the overall lead of the  championships.
Another event is scheduled for today: slalom.
I want to  wish her, personally and on behalf of the Bloc Quebecois, the best of luck.
We are proud of you, Mélanie. Go for it!
[English]

Smuggling
Mr. Jake E. Hoeppner (Lisgar--Marquette):
Mr. Speaker, since the government's anti-smuggling measures were announced, several Manitoba border crossings have been open 24 hours a day.
This only sends a clear message to smugglers to avoid these border crossings.
In addition, extra customs officers must be kept on duty at night at each crossing because of the extra hours.
The only increased traffic at these crossings has been in the form of vehicles going south to the United States to take advantage of cheap U.S. liquor, food and gasoline.
Revenue is being taken out of the pockets of Manitoba businesses and sent over the border.
Everyone agrees we should be concentrating on a decrease in smuggling, but instead the local RCMP which is already understaffed has to contend with increased smuggling of not only cigarettes but liquor and guns.
Would it not make more sense to close down the customs ports at night and increase the RCMP personnel to create better border patrol?
This would show real action against smuggling and would keep more Canadian dollars at home.
Women Entrepreneurs
Mrs. Dianne Brushett (Cumberland--Colchester):
Mr. Speaker, although last Wednesday was specifically designated as International Women's Day I would like today to acknowledge women entrepreneurs.
In 1989 women founded 50 per cent of all new Canadian businesses.
In Atlantic Canada between 1984 and 1990 the percentage of women owned businesses employing five or more full time employees increased from 16 per cent to 28 per cent.
Women are also succeeding in existing businesses.
In my riding in 1990 a former bank worker, Lois Robarts, took over Advocate Harbour Seafoods.
She has since expanded her sales and her processing plant and now employs five people.
That is significant considering that small businesses created 90 per cent of our region's new jobs in the 1980s.
It is imperative that the joint government-business committees we are establishing to encourage small business be particularly sensitive to the economic potential of Atlantic Canadian women.
The Budget
Mr. John Bryden (Hamilton--Wentworth):
Mr. Speaker, I am delighted the government has declared in its budget that it intends to review the funding of some 500 special interest groups which are relying on taxpayers' dollars rather than raising their own money.
The results of this review are to be incorporated in the 1995 budget.
I hope that this review will result in ongoing cuts where obviously warranted this year, not next.
We must concentrate on the genuinely needy now, not later.
Employment
Mrs. Jane Stewart (Brant):
Mr. Speaker, like all Canadians I am encouraged by the reduction in Canada's national unemployment rate in February.
However it is with great concern I report to the House that the riding of Brant was not so fortunate.
Our monthly unemployment rate jumped from 11.7 per cent to 14.1 per cent in February, well above the provincial average of 10.7 per cent.
One way that government can address the unemployment problems of smaller centres is by decentralizing some of its services.
In my riding, for example, we have no unique post-secondary institution. Our level of post-secondary education falls well below the national average.
My community could greatly be supported by the location of a federal research and development centre or some other technological institute or agency within its boundaries.
While I strongly support the job creation measures taken in the budget, I believe that decentralization is another proactive step that governments can take to create opportunities in our smaller communities.
I encourage our government to take steps in this direction.

[Translation]
Mining Industry
Mr. Bernard Deshaies (Abitibi):
Mr. Speaker, the ``Mining, an  industry to support'' campaign launched by the mining industry last September has received massive public support in over 150 mining communities in Canada and Quebec as well as from many other Canadians and Quebecers who are concerned with the future of this industry.
The mining industry is one of the driving forces of the economy and  as such requires more serious attention from the government as well as urgent action.
Canada's mineable reserves keep decreasing.
But this country cannot afford to lose an industry which contributes so  much to the national economy and to regional development.
The government  must take steps to revitalize this industry.
Time has come, for example,  to look at the possibility of giving preferential tax treatment to mining flow-through shares as well as at the need for a definition of ``research and development'' in the Income Tax Act that would include mining exploration.
[English]

World Cup Skiing
Mr. Herb Grubel (Capilano--Howe Sound):
Mr. Speaker, during the last two weekends the resort community of Whistler in my riding hosted three World Cup skiing events.
They were a great success as a result of the hard work of a large army of volunteers, the management and employees of the Whistler Ski Corporation, sports federations and the media and sponsors from the private sector.
Over 12,000 spectators and many more television viewers throughout the world saw the events.
In the women's downhill Michelle Ruthven finished third, Kate Pace fourth and Kerrin Lee-Gartner ninth.
In the men's downhill Cary Mullen finished fifth, Rob Boyd tenth and Edi Podivinski fourteenth.
Cary Mullen also placed fifth in the Super Giant Slalom yesterday.
Let us thank all those who have made the event such a success.
Let us congratulate those who braved one of the world's most challenging race courses and send sleds full of roses and a hearty thank you to those who represented Canada so well by beating some of the world's best racers.

[Translation]
Sixth Paraolympic Winter Games in Lillehammer
Ms. Albina Guarnieri (Mississauga East):
Mr. Speaker, the official  opening of the Sixth Paraolympic Winter Games took place last Thursday, in Lillehammer, Norway.
[English]

The Paralympic games are the premier competition for high performance athletes with disabilities.

[Translation]
Six hundred athletes representing 31 countries are participating in  these Games, which are held from March 10 to 19.
[English]

Canada is represented by 34 athletes competing in alpine skiing, cross-country skiing, sledge hockey, biathlon and ice sledge racing.
These athletes deserve our full support and recognition for their hard work and commitment to their sport.
Stacy Kohut of Calgary has won Canada's first gold medal of the Paralympics today. She was victorious in the Super G event.
Lana Spreeman of Calgary has won two bronze medals, one in downhill skiing and the other in Super Giant Slalom.
Ramona Hot of Edmonton won a bronze in a separate downhill event.

[Translation]
I am very pleased to announce that Canada's athletes have already  won four medals at these Games.
[English]

Rotary International
Mr. Paul Szabo (Mississauga South):
Mr. Speaker, Canadian unity has been enhanced by the unselfish contributions of many organizations that have worked so hard to make Canada a better place.
One such organization is Rotary International.
I was first introduced to Rotary 12 years ago by Mr. Allan Shulman and over the years I have been most impressed by its community leadership role.
In recognition of Rotarians, I would like to share with the House the Rotary International four-way test to guide what we say, think and do:
First, is it the truth?
Second, is it fair to all concerned?
Third, will it build goodwill and better friendship?
Fourth, will it be beneficial to all concerned?
Rotarians reflect the true spirit of Canadians and it is because of that spirit that Canada will always remain strong and united.

[Translation]
Collège militaire royal de Saint-Jean
Mr. Maurice Godin (Châteauguay):
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, some 3,000  people gathered to ask that the Collège militaire royal de Saint-Jean remain open.
This demonstration was truly a show of solidarity, with  residents from Saint-Jean, Montérégie, the greater Montreal and my own riding participating.
Politicians representing all political  affiliations joined in a common front to convey the message that the French-speaking military college in Saint-Jean must remain open.
The federal government must not make the mistake of closing this  unique institution in North America, which serves to train military officers in their own language and milieu.
The government must reconsider its decision and have the courage to  recognize its mistake, to clearly show that French-speaking institutions have their place in the federal system.
[English]

The Reform Party
Mr. Leon E. Benoit (Vegreville):
Mr. Speaker, charges of racism have been used all too often as a means of attempting to undermine the Reform Party.
These allegations of course are completely false and contribute nothing to the daily operations of the House.
These allegations are based on the fact that Reformers speak openly and honestly on issues such as Indian affairs and immigration.
The members opposite sometimes seem more concerned about choosing politically correct words in a speech or question than with the actual content.
Members should be able to express themselves without looking over their shoulder for that politically correct watchdog every time they speak.
A return to basic values, including respect and consideration regardless of gender, race or religion, is a much needed improvement in the House.
Lobbying
Mr. Paul DeVillers (Simcoe North):
Mr. Speaker, on pages 94 and 95 of the red book the government made a commitment to develop a stringent code of conduct for lobbyists under the auspices of the soon to be appointed independent ethics counsellor.
The people of Simcoe North and Canadians in general expect substantial reform in the way lobbying is conducted.
I feel the government must go all the way, making mandatory the full disclosure of fees, clients and the names of government officials being lobbied for first and second tier lobbyists.
In addition the government should give serious consideration to making the costs of lobbying non-tax deductible.

[Translation]
Canadians really appreciate the fact that this government kept its  election promises in the recent budget.
With the implementation of these  reforms, they will be all the more pleased to see that a real effort is being made to reinstill political ethics in our parliamentary institutions.
[English]

Ukraine
Mr. Joe Fontana (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Transport):
Mr. Speaker, I would like to pay homage to the victims of the 1933 Ukrainian famine and make fellow Canadians aware of this atrocious historical event.
Last year was the 50th anniversary of the famine and Ukrainians throughout North America and Europe held special ceremonies to commemorate the atrocities inflicted on their people.
The famine inflicted the highest casualties during the winter of 1932-33. While city dwellers were kept healthy and supplied with food, the countryside was wiped clean.
By the spring of 1933 people were dying at the rate of 25,000 a day. By the end of 1933 it is estimated that between six million and ten million Ukrainians had starved to death.
Even today as Ukrainians commemorate the 50th anniversary of the famine, the events are still largely unknown.
I realize that we cannot do anything to bring these people back.
However, we can make Canadians aware of the social and political injustice that has been relatively unknown for too long and ensure that such atrocities are never repeated.
University Hockey
Mr. John Murphy (Annapolis Valley--Hants):
Mr. Speaker, this past weekend in Toronto, and for the third consecutive year, Acadia University hockey team participated in the National University Hockey Championship Tournament.
For a school of 3,000 students, this is a great accomplishment.
While Acadia, the defending national champions, fell just short against the eventual winners, Lethbridge, I feel the accomplishment of this year's team must be recognized.
Led by the CIAU's player of the year, Duane Dennis, Acadia had an outstanding season; a season marked by dedication, hard work and a commitment to excellence.
I am proud of the young men involved in Acadia's hockey program and their academic achievements.
I believe that the members of this team have shown themselves to be responsible, dedicated and hard working on the ice, in the classroom and in the community.
Congratulations to Acadia.
It has every reason to be proud of its accomplishments.
Indian Affairs
Hon. Audrey McLaughlin (Yukon):
Mr. Speaker, last week the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development announced the devolution of his department's responsibilities to the First Nations of Canada, beginning with a demonstration project in Manitoba.
All I can say is that it is about time.
We have heard a lot in this House about the need to define self-government.
Self-government will not be defined the same in Yukon as it is in Manitoba because we must define it in terms of the cultural heritage, of the various aboriginal groups that are being dealt with.
It must be an item for negotiation.
Each settlement will be defined by the history and culture of the First Nations people.
This is an extremely important initiative and because of that I ask the minister to place before the House a plan with clear timetables and, most important, the financial resources to be allotted to this plan of devolution.
That will determine whether this initiative is genuine or just another step on the highway of broken promises.
Oral Questions
ORAL QUESTION PERIOD

[Translation]
Employment
Hon. Lucien Bouchard (Leader of the Opposition):
Mr. Speaker, my  question is for the Prime Minister.
Several members of the government are attending the G-7 summit on  employment held in Detroit today.
According to a government source  quoted in this morning's newspapers, Canada intends to submit to its G-7 partners a proposal to put in place a tax credit for employers who create new jobs and for those who save jobs.
Can the Prime Minister confirm that Canada is about to present such  a proposal, and can we expect the government to put in place such a tax credit for employers who create new jobs and for those who save jobs that would otherwise be threatened by technological changes?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, I do not think that the Minister of Finance will present in Detroit a proposal on Canadian taxation.
I think that the ministers who are there today want to look with their colleagues at solutions that could be applied in the Western world and that many ideas will be debated, but in Detroit, the Minister of Finance will not be making any proposals concerning Canadian taxpayers.
All that must be done in the usual way, as we did a few weeks ago when the budget was tabled.
[Hon. Lucien Bouchard (Leader of the Opposition):
Mr. Speaker, it  is very disappointing to hear that so many ministers went off to discuss and chat without having anything new to propose.
I ask the Prime Minister what justifies their presence at the G-7  summit if it is not to come up with new ideas.
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, our  ministers will talk about what we are trying to do here in Canada at this time, and I imagine that the other ministers will explain what they are trying to do in their own countries.
Unacceptable unemployment  levels are now a problem throughout the Western world.
That is why  President Clinton convened this summit, so that the ministers responsible in this area can meet and exchange ideas.
And if this summit  produces new ideas that can apply to the Canadian situation, I am sure that our ministers will be happy to take note and report to the Canadian Parliament.
[Hon. Lucien Bouchard (Leader of the Opposition):
Mr. Speaker, we  hope that the representatives to this summit will do more than compare their respective countries' unemployment rates.
All this is not very  encouraging.
Can the Prime Minister tell us today if, after the G-7 summit, his  government will introduce a real policy, a real job creation strategy to give a little hope finally to the 1.5 million unemployed Canadians and especially to young people, nearly 20 per cent of whom are without jobs?
[English]

[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, that was debated in the budget debates over the last few weeks.
We explained our plans, including the infrastructure program and the youth program.
We want to make sure by changing the nature of our social programs there is more money available for creating jobs.
When meeting with others they discuss our approach and we discuss their approach. That is the reason we meet with them. We try to have good exchanges with the people involved and thus have as much stability as possible in the western world.
Everyone agrees it is better when people talk than when they do not.
It was a good initiative by the President of the United States to invite all the ministers involved with labour and employment to get together.

[Translation]
Mrs. Francine Lalonde (Mercier):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for  the Prime Minister.
The government keeps saying that its real priority is job creation.
Today, a large delegation of Canadian ministers is attending a G-7  conference which we thought would deal with ways to stimulate employment.
In the meantime, the government maintains the unemployment  insurance premium increase which it put in effect last January 1, and which is truly a tax on employment. In fact, last week in this House,  the Minister of Finance himself said it was absurd.
Does the Prime Minister agree that, if the government wants to be  logical when it talks about job creation, it must immediately eliminate this premium increase?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, this is  precisely what the government has done.
The previous Conservative  administration had decided that UI premiums would go up to $3.30.
We  passed legislation to lower these premiums to $3.07 for the current year, and to $3 at the beginning of next year.
So, we have done  precisely that.
Again, the premiums were set at $3.30 by an act of Parliament, but  we have lowered them to $3.07 for the current year, and to $3 as of January 1, 1995.
[Mrs. Francine Lalonde (Mercier):
Mr. Speaker, I remind the Prime  Minister that he implemented a decision made by the Conservatives to lower UI premiums to $3.07 as of January 1994. He maintained the  decision to set premiums at $3.07 until next January, in order to get $800 million from Canadians.
Does the Prime Minister recognize that cancelling this premium  increase would have an immediate effect on employment, and does he agree that if this increase is absurd, as the Minister of Finance admitted, maintaining it is a lot more absurd?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, we would  have preferred to lower premiums to $3 right away, but we have serious budget constraints.
Nevertheless, we did reduce premiums from $3.30 down  to $3.07 for this year, and to $3 for 1995.
Obviously, we would have preferred to set premiums at $3, but it is  not just a matter of pleasing people, we have to do what we can with what we have, and the decision made by the Minister of Finance to lower premiums to $3.07 for the first year and to $3 for the second year was the best one that could be made under the circumstances.
[English]

Employment
Mr. Preston Manning (Calgary Southwest):
Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Prime Minister.
As has been already mentioned, the government is represented at the G-7 meeting in Detroit to discuss worldwide unemployment and underemployment.
I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether his ministers are taking any specific proposals for job creation at all to that meeting and particularly whether the private sector's views on job creation have been included and are going to be presented.
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, that is certainly what the Minister of Finance and the other ministers will do.
We said that 85 per cent of the jobs in Canada will be created by small and medium size businesses in the future.
That is why we have passed some legislation and made some adjustments that will induce the private sector to create these jobs.
They will explain the technique Canada has decided to use. I hope that others will benefit from our views.
If in the course of the discussions someone were to come up with the miracle solution, of course we would take it, but it is a complicated situation all over the world.
We know Canada has a problem.
Some will say perhaps we should reduce or abandon the minimum wage.
Canada is not that kind of a country.
Canada does not want to have sweatshops in order for people to have jobs.
We are a civilized nation that wants to do it the proper way.
We have a good regime, but if somebody has a better idea then we are open to it.
I am a Liberal.
I am not a doctrinaire person.
I borrow from the left and I borrow from the right, as long as the solution is right.
[Mr. Preston Manning (Calgary Southwest):
Mr. Speaker, we appreciate the Prime Minister's answer and we certainly recognize that the Prime Minister borrows.
The Prime Minister made reference and the Minister of Finance is now admitting that a $1 billion spending cut in UI creates more jobs than a $1 billion spending increase on infrastructure.
To be consistent therefore will Canada be recommending tax cuts as a job creation strategy at the G-7 meeting?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, the infrastructure program is a very good program and will create jobs immediately.
It has been subscribed to enthusiastically by all provincial governments and all the municipalities, including the beautiful city of Calgary.
That good program is one part of our strategy.
We have reduced some laws passed by the Conservative government by decreasing the level of unemployment insurance premiums made by the private sector over the period of two years from $3.30 to $3. That will put something like $300 million in the hands of small businesses.
However as explained earlier we have to have a balanced approach and job creation to improve the infrastructure of the nation.
It is a good program, especially at a time when there is a very high level of unemployment in one country.
[Mr. Preston Manning (Calgary Southwest):
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance and some members of the government are beginning to admit that reducing tax loads is the most direct way to create jobs.
However the Minister of Human Resources Development and to some extent the Prime Minister continue to stress increased government spending on things like infrastructure as the most direct way to create jobs.
At this meeting are the government ministers singing from the same song sheet?
Which approach is Canada advocating at the G-7 meetings:  government led job creation through increased spending, or private sector led job creation through tax cuts?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, both techniques were used in the last budget.

[Translation]
Collège Militaire de Saint-Jean
Mr. Claude Bachand (Saint-Jean):
Mr. Speaker, a crowd of 3,000  demonstrated yesterday in Saint-Jean against the federal government's decision to close the only francophone military college in Canada.
In a  complete about-turn on this issue, the Quebec Premier now says that the Collège militaire de Saint-Jean must continue to exist and its military orientation maintained.
My question is for the right honourable Prime Minister.
Will the Prime Minister confirm that his government is presently  negotiating with the Quebec government to ensure that certain military training activities are maintained at the Collège militaire de Saint-Jean?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, we are  discussing at this time with the government of Quebec and, if this college can be used as an institution of higher learning in the province of Quebec, we will be more than happy to work together with the government of Quebec.
No decisions have been made.
As far as we  are concerned, with closures across the country, we want to try and find ways of helping the cities and municipalities affected in order to minimize the impact.
[Mr. Claude Bachand (Saint-Jean):
Mr. Speaker, are we to understand  that the Prime Minister rejects the plea of the Quebec Premier who views  keeping Saint-Jean in operation as a golden opportunity to give real substance to the Canadian linguistic duality.
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, as I  watched images of the demonstration yesterday, it occurred to me that many of the people protesting were the same people who, in 1970 or 1971 if I am not mistaken, were demonstrating against the Collège militaire de Saint-Jean obtaining university status or offering university certification.
There were lengthy negotiations. The University of  Montreal refused under pressure, and so did the University of Quebec. Finally and fortunately, the University of Sherbrooke accepted.
The  nationalists demonstrating yesterday were the same ones who 20 years ago did not want the Saint-Jean military college to exist for francophones in Quebec.
[English]

Science and Technology
Mr. Jim Hart (Okanagan--Similkameen--Merritt):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister.
It is recognized that science has an enormous contribution to make to the creation of new jobs for the new economy.
Yet there has been very little reference to the role of science from the government.
Does the government have a science policy?
If so, could the Prime Minister tell us in a nutshell what this policy is?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member does not need a nutshell;
he can read the budget.
In fact we decided to increase the contribution to science in Canada in the last budget.
The hon. member should read the red book where it says that investment in research and development is needed to have Canada in a good position to compete internationally in the 21st century.
[Mr. Jim Hart (Okanagan--Similkameen--Merritt):
I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
The previous government tried to set targets for total research and development spending in Canada in the vicinity of 2 per cent to 3 per cent of GDP.
Could the Prime Minister tell the House the targets for R and D spending in Canada and specifically for departments and agencies of his government?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member reads the budget he will find that.
I am happy when I see a member of the Reform Party standing up after four months to ask the government to spend more money.
It is very refreshing to hear that.
We hear that every day.
Now the reality is hitting them.
So much the better.

[Translation]
Youth Employment
Mr. Gilles Duceppe (Laurier--Sainte-Marie):
Mr. Speaker, my  question is for the Prime Minister.
Nearly 20 per cent of young  Quebecers and Canadians are unemployed today--an unacceptable record of 428,000 people under 25.
In the Speech from the Throne, the government  announced that it wants to better prepare young people to enter the labour market.
Does the Prime Minister admit that his youth apprenticeship program  in no way meets the needs of Quebec since Quebec got only $2 million out of a total budget of $225 million in 1993 under this program, or less than 1 per cent of the money spent?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, if the  situation was that bad under the former government, we intend to rectify it.
It is this government's policy to ensure that Quebec is not treated  worse than the other provinces.
[Mr. Gilles Duceppe (Laurier--Sainte-Marie):
Mr. Speaker, my  supplementary question is again for the Prime Minister.
The reason that  Quebec gets less is that vocational training and the education system do not include apprenticeship courses or programs as they exist in the rest of Canada.
Quebec has a different system.
Given the failures of this program, can the Prime Minister promise  to give Quebec its fair share of the funds allocated under this program so that Quebec can use them more effectively, according to its own priorities?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, that is  exactly what we are trying to do now.
That is why the Minister of Human  Resources Development is having discussions with his provincial counterpart to find an arrangement whereby Quebec can receive its fair share and use it effectively so that young Quebecers, like other young Canadians, are as well prepared as possible to enter the labour market, because it will be very difficult for them as well as for others.
We must work co-operatively to ensure that all young Canadians are  sufficiently well prepared that we can occupy our rightful place in the very competitive world which we will have to face in the coming years.
[English]

Aboriginal Self-Government
Mr. David Chatters (Athabasca):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister.
The government has committed itself to establishing aboriginal self-government in the province of Manitoba.
Last week neither the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development nor the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs was able to provide the House with a clear straightforward definition of aboriginal self-government.
Will the Prime Minister, as head of the government and as a former minister of Indian affairs, please give the House his definition of aboriginal self-government, particularly as it relates to Manitoba?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, I will take the question but I know that my minister for federal-provincial relations gave the answer last week.
When we negotiate with a group of people about what should be the status of running their own affairs, we cannot give the final decision before it has been negotiated.
What are the goals of the government?
They are not very complicated.
I was Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Affairs Development for more than six years.
I know that we need a different regime where we can delegate to them the authority to make their own decisions.
I have said time and again that we made a lot of mistakes.
Perhaps the time has come to let them make some mistakes themselves by giving them the authority to decide locally regarding education, welfare, housing, economic development and not have them wait for instructions from bureaucrats in Ottawa.
[Mr. David Chatters (Athabasca):
Mr. Speaker, as a supplementary question, will the federal government after having arrived at this definition in some way then allow the aboriginal peoples and all the peoples in Manitoba to voice their approval or disapproval of the example through a system of referendum?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, every member of the House has been elected to make decisions.
There will be a vote in the House of Commons.
I do not believe that every time we have a difficult problem in Canada we wash our hands of it by having a referendum.
That is not my way.
Tough decisions have to be made by government.
If we do not make the right decisions it is up to the electors to tell us in the next election.
It is democracy that is best.
It is complicated enough in that area. If we let a huge majority decide in a complicated situation like this where there are some tensions between different races, it is not a good way to solve it.
The best way is for every one of us to take our own responsibility, vote in the House of Commons and live with the judgment we have expressed on behalf of our electors in the House.

[Translation]
Publishing Industry
Mr. Paul Mercier (Blainville--Deux-Montagnes):
Mr. Speaker, my  question is for the Prime Minister.
The takeover of Ginn Publishing by  the American company Paramount continues to arouse controversy.
In the  meantime, the government persists in concealing the identity of the person who made the verbal commitment allowing this transaction to take place.
Under his great transparency policy, does the Prime Minister not  find it disturbing and even unhealthy that Parliament cannot know the identity of the person behind the verbal commitment that derailed the established policy on ownership of Canadian cultural industries?
Who is the government protecting in this affair?
[English]

Hon. Douglas Peters (Secretary of State (International Financial Institutions)):
Mr. Speaker, there was a very complete statement given on the Gin question by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance.
The member will find it on page 1838 of Hansard.
To summarize, we had a legal responsibility to enter into this contract and it was done.
It was left to us by the previous government.
What our government did was get a better deal. It improved the deal by putting in Canadian content requirements, author requirements and distribution requirements.
It was a great deal for Canada.

[Translation]
[Mr. Paul Mercier (Blainville--Deux-Montagnes):
Mr. Speaker, I  would have thought that a transparent policy means not having anything to hide and answering the questions that are asked.
We asked for a name.
We did not get it.
The Minister of Canadian Heritage is trying to hide his abdication  of responsibility in this affair behind the changes to the Baie-Comeau policy made by the Tories in 1992.
To avoid repeating that mess, can the  Prime Minister make a commitment today to fully restore the provisions of the Baie-Comeau policy protecting Canadian ownership of cultural industries?
[English]

[Hon. Douglas Peters (Secretary of State (International Financial Institutions)):
Mr. Speaker, the question that has been raised is interesting.
The decision was made in 1989 when the leader of the Bloc Quebecois was in the cabinet.
Maybe he has some special information on the deal that he would like to share with the House.
That was when the situation arose and that was the responsibility of the previous government.
If the member is looking for responsibility, look right in the front row of your own party.
Rail Line Abandonment
Mr. Murray Calder (Wellington--Grey--Dufferin--Simcoe):
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Transport.
There are currently a number of rail lines or subdivisions in the province of Ontario undergoing an abandonment procedure through the National Transportation Agency.
In my riding, Wellington--Grey--Dufferin--Simcoe, the NTA is to rule on the abandonment of the Meaford subdivision which runs from Barry to Collingwood.
There are prospective buyers interested in purchasing the line but they are hesitant as a result of the Ontario labour legislation known as Bill 40.
What proactive steps has the Minister of Transport taken with the Ontario government to ensure that rail lines are not torn out of the ground before this critical issue is resolved in order to ensure a solid and diversified transportation infrastructure?
Hon. Douglas Young (Minister of Transport):
Mr. Speaker, I want to be very clear in my answer to my colleague with respect to any proactive steps we might take with the Government of Ontario.
We obviously have to respect the jurisdiction of the Government of Ontario in this matter.
However I would like to tell my friend that there were a number of companies indicating interest for short line operations in the province of Ontario as well as other parts of the country based on a couple of reasonably good experiences that we have had in Canada with that type of operation.
I think it would be fair to say that since that legislation was brought forward and passed at Queen's Park that interest has diminished very significantly.
It is unfortunate because there will be undoubtedly many opportunities for short line operators to take over rail lines in various parts of Canada.
It is sad that they are not going to have an opportunity, I do not believe, to do it with the same kind of facility in Ontario as would have been the case had this legislation not been passed.
Vancouver Port Authority
Mr. Mike Scott (Skeena):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport.
The Vancouver Port Authority recently approved a Las Vegas style casino project even though such for profit casinos are not legal in British Columbia.
Could the minister explain why a federal authority is approving tenders for activities that are currently illegal in British Columbia?
Hon. Douglas Young (Minister of Transport):
Mr. Speaker, obviously the proposal that has been taken under consideration by the Vancouver Port Authority is not one that would allow through any measures that authority could undertake for illegal activity.
I do want to answer my friend by saying that one of the policies that we are following in this government, not only with respect to ports but also obviously as we move toward devolution of control for airports, will be to allow for local autonomy.
One cannot have it both ways.
I am sure that the people on the ground in the greater Vancouver area who have the direct responsibility for management of that area, both the real estate as well as the port, will take into account the best interest not only of that region but of the province of British Columbia and certainly would not be prepared to act in any way that would be contrary to the law.
[Mr. Mike Scott (Skeena):
Mr. Speaker, I thank the minister for his answer.
I have a supplementary question.
This project has caused much concern among the people of British Columbia.
The federal government clearly has no mandate to develop casino gambling across Canada.
Could the minister explain to the concerned citizens of British Columbia and indeed all Canadians, given the complete absence of public consultation, how and why the federal government decided to approve this casino project?
[Hon. Douglas Young (Minister of Transport):
Mr. Speaker, first let me clear up a statement that was made by the member that I am sure he did not intend to mislead the House with and that is that the Government of Canada does not approve that particular situation. There is a local board that is autonomous and is appointed. It is made up of a number of representatives chosen in a very broad selection process.
The question of what will happen with that land, in my view, is far from determined finally because the Government of British Columbia will have a great deal to say about that.
As he says, the law does not permit casino activities at this point.
I think it is an opportunity for residents of the area to review the matter and make their views known to the Government of Canada, to the Government of British Columbia and obviously to the port authority.
However, there is certainly no final decision on this.
I understand the preoccupation of the member as well as many of the people in British Columbia with respect to this particular proposal.

[Translation]
Cable Broadcasting Industry
Mr. Benoît Sauvageau (Terrebonne):
Mr. Speaker, before I put my  question, I would like to say that there should be and there can be transparency when people are aware of current political affairs.
This  is not always obvious to the other side.
My question is for the Prime Minister.
Rogers Communications is  poised to take over the Maclean Hunter Group.
This blockbuster  transaction will create a virtual monopoly in the cable broadcasting industry, a situation which raises some important questions as to the level of competition within this industry.
My question is this:
Does the Prime Minister recognize that this  takeover will create a monopoly in the field of cable broadcasting and that this situation will adversely affect rates and the variety of information available to consumers?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, I believe  that before any approval is given, a submission must be made to CRTC commissioners. I am not in a position to comment on a ruling by this  commission before public hearings are held.
[Mr. Benoît Sauvageau (Terrebonne):
Mr. Speaker, I believe we are  here to get some answers.
Does the Prime Minister not recognize that this monopoly in the  cable broadcasting industry and Rogers' 32-per-cent ownership of Unitel shares give this company an unfair advantage over its cable and telephone industry competitors in terms of the development of the information highway?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, this  matter does not come under ministerial jurisdiction at this time.
The  Parliament of Canada established a wholly independent commission to rule on acquisitions of this nature in such areas.
The only power we have,  and it is quite limited considering Parliament's wish that decisions be made by people outside the executive, is to wait and see what the Commission's ruling on this matter will be.
It is not that we do not  want to answer the question, it is that we are not in a position to supply you with an answer.
[English]

Cross-Border Shopping
Mr. Jake E. Hoeppner (Lisgar--Marquette):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Revenue.
The government has extended the hours of several Canada customs ports of entry in Manitoba.
Smugglers know to stay away from these ports, but more Manitobans are being encouraged to go south of the border to take advantage of cheap food, liquor and gasoline.
Is the minister aware that the only impact of his actions are Canadian dollars going south and this is hurting Manitoba business people, not smugglers?
Hon. David Anderson (Minister of National Revenue):
Mr. Speaker, the extra customs activities at the border are having an effect on smugglers and are beneficial from that point of view.
I do not agree with the hon. member's contention that it is the job of national revenue to make it difficult for Canadians to cross the border, whether they live in Manitoba or in any other place.
If Canadians are finding extended hours useful for them in their activities I think that it is something Canada customs would regard as a side benefit from the attempts they are making to curb smuggling.
[Mr. Jake E. Hoeppner (Lisgar--Marquette):
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that answer.
I would like to point out to the hon. minister that on February 25 Manitoba RCMP arrested two men for smuggling $28,000 worth of liquor and tobacco.
The truck had been driven across the border at a point not controlled by Canada customs and was stopped at Elie, approximately 100 miles from the border.
Would the minister consider making one of those tough decisions, close these border points at night and transfer the funds to extra RCMP supervision of these border crossings?
[Hon. David Anderson (Minister of National Revenue):
Mr. Speaker, among the many measures that were announced with respect to smuggling was the beefing up of patrols by the RCMP.
There will be more RCMP officers involved in this than there will be customs officers.
This was announced by the Prime Minister, the Solicitor General and myself some weeks ago.
Certainly we do not expect to pick up all smuggled shipments at the border.
We do expect to pick them up either in Canada or sometimes in the United States prior to reaching the border, as happened with a large number of semi-automatic weapons quite recently.
I congratulate the member for pointing out the efficiency of the RCMP and the customs service in picking up smuggled goods, but I would point out to him that we do not rely only on the physical proximity to the border to make such seizures.
Canadian Wheat Board
Mrs. Marlene Cowling (Dauphin--Swan River):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food.
Our red book platform promise was to maintain the Canadian Wheat Board.
There are some groups on the prairies, particularly one identifying itself as the alliance which is promoting the idea of a farmer plebiscite on the removal of barley from the sole jurisdiction of the Canadian Wheat Board.
I would ask the minister of agriculture if he has considered the possibility of consulting the farm community about strengthening the power of the board by bringing oats back on to the board and by expanding its jurisdiction to the international market.
Hon. Ralph E. Goodale (Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food):
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hon. member for her question and for her interest in the Canadian Wheat Board.
This question and others that have been asked reflect the diversity of opinion in western Canada with respect to the operations and the jurisdiction of the wheat board.
I continue to have a great many consultations and discussions with the board and with others, particularly with farmers, about the board's operations and its future direction.
With respect to the matter of a plebiscite, there are many differing views on the question.
Indeed some who had argued against a plebiscite a year ago are now arguing in favour of one and vice versa.
In considering the government's position we will keep the hon. member's representations in mind.
My objective, and it is the objective of the government, is to obtain the very best possible marketing results for farmers both now and in the long term.
Every action of the government will be very much aimed in that direction.

[Translation]
Official Residences
Mr. Laurent Lavigne (Beauharnois--Salaberry):
Mr. Speaker, my  question is for the Minister of Public Works.
Last February 16, the  Minister of Public Works was not able to tell the opposition what amounts will be spent for the renovation of the official residences of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition, the Speaker of the House, as well as the summer cottage of the Prime Minister at Harrington Lake.
Since the question was asked a month ago already, is the Minister  of Public Works in a position now to tell us about the scope of these renovations, or is he still too uncomfortable to justify such spending in times of budget austerity and salary freeze?
[English]

Hon. David Dingwall (Minister of Public Works and Government Services and Minister for the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency):
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member knows quite well that the minister responsible for Canadian heritage whose jurisdiction this matter falls within is away on government business.
I will endeavour to ascertain the information requested. I am certain I can report back to the House and to the hon. member with the specific information requested.

[Translation]
[Mr. Laurent Lavigne (Beauharnois--Salaberry):
Mr. Speaker, I will  ask my supplementary to the Prime Minister, because there does not seem to be a great deal of communication between him and his minister.
Why  does the Prime Minister not intervene regarding the money spent on these residences, particularly Stornoway, the residence of the Leader of the Opposition, which is not even being lived in?
[Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, I cannot  speak on behalf of the commission responsible for these official residences.
However, I can tell you that, as regards the residence of  the Prime Minister as well as his summer cottage, no renovation of any kind will be made, as everyone knows.
I did not buy furniture; instead,  I used what was available, in order to limit spending as much as possible. As far as I know, no major renovations are to take place.
It may be that a plumber will have to do some work, but I am not  going to throw him out!
However, nothing major is scheduled for 24  Sussex, nor for the residence at Harrington Lake.
There could always be  some technical problem. Unfortunately, I had to answer so many questions  today that I did not have time to study my book on how to solve these technical problems.
[English]

Human Rights
Mr. Garry Breitkreuz (Yorkton--Melville):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice.
On January 27 the minister announced in the House the government's intention to introduce amendments to the Human Rights Act which ``will include sexual orientation as a ground upon which discrimination is prohibited''.
Could the minister tell the House what is the government's definition of sexual orientation?
Hon. Allan Rock (Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada):
Mr. Speaker, that provision is now in the human rights codes or statutes of seven of the ten provinces.
It has also been broadly dealt with in the jurisprudence as cases have come before the courts and tribunals with respect to the rights of individuals.
I think that in Canadian law there is no question about the meaning of that term in statutes such as the Canadian Human Rights Act.
I commend the decisions of the courts to my friend, the hon. member, if there is any doubt in his mind.
[Mr. Garry Breitkreuz (Yorkton--Melville):
Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the Minister of Justice.
Will the minister include a definition of sexual orientation in the legislation he proposes, and will this definition be clear enough to prevent pedophiles from launching successful court challenges of discrimination for acts that are clearly prohibited in the Criminal Code?
[Hon. Allan Rock (Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada):
Mr. Speaker, in matters involving the law, as in so much else in life, we are governed by that which is reasonable.
If I may say so, I do not believe it is reasonable for anybody to interpret the term sexual orientation as it appears in human rights legislation as including pedophiles or others who engage in criminal conduct.
As I mentioned in my response to the hon. member's first question, it is my belief that judgments of courts and tribunals across the country interpreting legislation that is already on the books in many provinces makes the meaning of that term abundantly clear.
We have no intention to make that additional provision in the proposed amendments.

[Translation]
Allan Memorial Institute
Mr. François Langlois (Bellechasse):
Mr. Speaker, my question is  directed to the Minister of Justice.
During the last election campaign, the Liberal Party of Canada  promised to compensate the families of victims of the brainwashing experiments using electroshock therapy and drugs, conducted at the Allen Memorial Institute in Montreal in the fifties and sixties, but the Minister of Justice has just refused to compensate these families.
Could the Minister tell us whether he intends to follow up on his  party's promise of financial assistance or are we to understand that the government has reversed its position?
[English]

Hon. Allan Rock (Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada):
Mr. Speaker, the role of the Department of Justice in the program that was instituted to compensate those who were victimized by the program in question is to assess each application in terms of the provisions of the order in council which created the fund and to determine whether the applicants meet the criteria established by that legislation.
That is precisely what we have done.
In each case, many of which have come to my notice by way of applications for review, we have carefully matched the circumstances of the applicant with the parameters of the order in council. I am satisfied that in each such case we have followed the law to its letter.
The Budget
Mr. Cliff Breitkreuz (Yellowhead):
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister and was inspired by Annie du la Chevrotiere of Brackendale, British Columbia.
Recently the Minister of Finance stated that his ultimate goal is to eliminate the deficit and balance the national budget.
If the Prime Minister agrees with his Minister of Finance, will he commit to making a balanced federal budget a requirement of law?
Right Hon. Jean Chrétien (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, as the sound of the name is French perhaps I should reply in French because it is not the hon. member's question but was apparently asked by somebody else.
Every government wants to balance its books.
No government wants a deficit.
We have a target that is very well established in the red book to reduce the deficit in relation to GNP to 3 per cent and we intend to do that.
Of course when we get to 3 per cent we will try to go lower and the day we have a balanced budget I will be extremely happy.
But I cannot guarantee that to anybody.
Even if we were to pass that law, sometimes things happen which are completely outside the control of government and we have to meet those needs.
It is a kind of dream to think that passing a law will balance the books.
They have done it in the United States for how many years? They still have a problem there too.
It is a problem around the world.
In Canada we have the problem but it is no worse than the one in Europe.
Our deficit in relation to GNP is 6.2 per cent and the average in Europe is 6.5 per cent.
I am not happy with that.
I want to reduce it to 3 per cent in the next three years. After that we will go lower with everybody's help.
Social programs
Mr. Andy Mitchell (Parry Sound--Muskoka):
Mr. Speaker, a recent poll shows that Canadians support the government's initiative to reform social programs.
Yet some individuals have expressed concern that the government's objective may be solely to cut services and programs.
What assurances can the parliamentary secretary to the human resources minister give the House that indeed the government's prime objective is to provide Canadians with better, more efficient services?
Mr. Maurizio Bevilacqua (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Human Resources Development):
Mr. Speaker, I can assure the hon. member and Canadians that we have no intention of cutting services for the Canadian people.
We are working with the provincial governments to bring about more efficient delivery of services.
The single window initiative will improve service to clients, will eliminate duplication and waste and will increase administrative efficiencies.
As a matter of fact last week we opened a new employment resource centre in Ottawa that will merge the two services.
We plan to give Canadians only the very best.
Routine Proceedings
Routine Proceedings
[English]

Government Response to Petitions
Mr. Peter Milliken (Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons):
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to 16 petitions.
Commonwealth Day
Hon. André Ouellet (Minister of Foreign Affairs):
Mr. Speaker, today is Commonwealth Day, celebrated annually on the second Monday in March to mark the establishment of the modern Commonwealth.
Each year a special theme is attached to this day. The focus this year is on sports and the Commonwealth.
This theme has special significance for Canada because we will be hosting the 15th Commonwealth Games this summer in Victoria, British Columbia.
For an unprecedented fourth time in the history of the Commonwealth Games, Canada will have the honour of hosting the Commonwealth's festival of sports and culture.
The Commonwealth exemplifies unity and diversity and the strength of multilateralism and co-operation. Almost one-quarter of the world's population now forms the Commonwealth.
Through the Commonwealth, Canada is linked with 49 other countries of various races, faiths, languages, cultures and traditions.
The Commonwealth provides an opportunity for Canada to enhance its relationships with the member countries and to advance Canadian foreign policy interests.
Canadians can take pride in the accomplishments of the Commonwealth to which Canada has contributed greatly over its long and vital history.
Arnold Smith, a remarkable Canadian diplomat and the first Secretary General of the Commonwealth who unfortunately died last month, is just one example of the dedicated Canadians who have helped to build the Commonwealth and its institutions.
Canada will continue to contribute to the Commonwealth through the 1990s and beyond.
In just over one month Canadian observers will be present alongside other Commonwealth and international observers for the first ever democratic elections in South Africa.
These elections are an important step in that country's history.
After having assumed a leadership role within the Commonwealth and the fight against apartheid and for universal suffrage these elections also hold a very special significance for Canada and Canadians.
Our efforts in the aftermath of these elections will not diminish.
I assure hon. members and Canadians that we will continue to be a prominent member of the Commonwealth to mobilize efforts to promote fundamental human values.
These basic values lie at the heart of the Commonwealth and were reaffirmed in the landmark 1991 Harare declaration.
The people to people linkages holding the Commonwealth family together are numerous and are found in every sector and we will continue to promote them.
It is in this spirit that we intend to host the Commonwealth Games this year.
I ask all members to join with me today in recognizing the importance of Canada's membership in the modern Commonwealth.

[Translation]
Mr. Gilles Duceppe (Laurier--Sainte-Marie):
Mr. Speaker, it is a  pleasure for the Bloc Quebecois to join the government today in recognizing the importance of Canada's membership in the Commonwealth.
As you know, the Bloc Quebecois remains vigilant to ensure that  resources allocated by the federal government to the francophonie reflect its importance in Canada and correspond to the priorities established by Quebec and the francophonie as a whole.
That being said, we have no intention of neglecting Canada's  relations with the Commonwealth.
As the Leader of the Opposition has said before, the Commonwealth is a  very important forum for Canada to maintain close ties with nearly 50 countries throughout the world and to encourage the exercise of the rights and values cherished by Canada and Quebec.
On Commonwealth Day, I think it is important to recall that a  sovereign Quebec would wish to maintain those ties.
Without taking on  additional financial burdens, Quebec would be able to maintain and intensify its relations with countries in the Caribbean, Asia and Africa.
A sovereign Quebec will want to be more open to the world, and  I think this should give you a clear indication of what its position will be.
The Bloc Quebecois is pleased to celebrate this commemorative  occasion under the special theme: ``Sport and the Commonwealth''.
And we are certain that Canada will be the perfect host this summer at  the Fifteenth Commonwealth Games in Victoria.
[English]

Mr. Bob Mills (Red Deer):
Mr. Speaker, on this Commonwealth Day we should take a moment to think of the advantages to Canada of being a member of the modern Commonwealth.
As the minister said, it certainly gives us an opportunity to enhance our position in the world as a potential leader of one-quarter of the world's population.
It gives us a chance to demonstrate our expertise, technology and service to a major world trading bloc. It also gives us the opportunity to do something independent of the United States.
That has its benefits for our national unity as well.
It is particularly meaningful this year that the Commonwealth Games will be held in Victoria. By allowing us to host this unique event, through the competitiveness of athletics we can understand our strengths and weaknesses. We can take this opportunity to understand the customs, traditions and the ways of thinking of other people in the Commonwealth.
The Olympics has given us a great world hope for the future and has created an environment for potential greater unity.
I am sure the Commonwealth Games will be an extension of this goodwill. Our Victoria friends will do the very best job of hosting them.
I think back to when Edmonton hosted this event and the great associations and friendships made during that occasion.
I was also interested in the minister's comments on our commitment to South Africa.
I am concerned about South Africa as well and the democracy taking place there.
Before we commit ourselves to what I understand could be in the neighbourhood of 50 people, we must ask what the cost will be, what will actually be done and what actual value there is to Canadians.
I was personally asked to get involved in this process.
I must admit I have great difficulty doing so unless I can have those three questions answered during these difficult economic times.
We in the Reform Party recognize the importance of Canada's membership in the modern Commonwealth and we continue to support that membership.
Ombudsman Act
Bill C-221.
Motions for introduction and first reading deemed adopted
Mrs. Beryl Gaffney (Nepean) moved for leave to introduce Bill C-221, an act establishing the office of ombudsman and amending acts in consequence thereof.
She said:
Mr. Speaker, the purpose of this act is to establish the institution of a federal ombudsman.
This would be an independent and non-partisan officer of this Parliament who would supervise the administration, deal with specific complaints from the public against the administrative injustice and the maladministration and who would have the power to investigate, criticize and publicize but not to reverse administrative action.
A federal ombudsman with his or her wide powers of investigation, which is something we as MPs do not have, would be able to handle the flow of complaints for which parliamentary procedure is less suitable and to strengthen the present system at its weak point.
Furthermore, a federal ombudsman would be the servant of Parliament and answerable to it alone.
(Motions deemed adopted, bill read the first time and printed.)
Excise Tax Act
Bill C-222.
Motions for introduction and first reading deemed adopted
Mrs. Beryl Gaffney (Nepean) moved for leave to introduce Bill C-222, an act to amend the Excise Tax Act (extremity pumps).
She said:
Mr. Speaker, some people for health reasons require a piece of medical equipment called an extremity pump.
It is the supply of an extremity pump that releases swelling caused by lymphedema of the legs in particular.
I am simply asking that the Excise Tax Act be amended to allow for this extremity pump.
(Motions deemed adopted, bill read the first time and printed.)
Income Tax Act
Bill C-223.
Motions for introduction and first reading deemed adopted
Mrs. Beryl Gaffney (Nepean) moved for leave to introduce Bill C-223, an act to amend the Income Tax Act (air conditioners).
She said:
Mr. Speaker, the purpose of Bill C-223, which is an act to amend the Income Tax Act, concerns the cost of an air conditioner required for health reasons. To be more specific, people who suffer from multiple sclerosis find it very difficult to breathe during the hot humid summer months and would like an air conditioner.
As it would be used for health purposes, its cost would be included as a medical expense under the medical expense tax credit under the Income Tax Act.
(Motions deemed adopted, bill read the first time and printed.)
Petitions
Killer Cards
Mr. John Richardson (Perth--Wellington--Waterloo):
Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to present a petition on behalf of residents of my riding of Perth--Wellington--Waterloo.
The nature of the petition is to enact legislation to ban the selling of serial killer cards in Canada and I support this petition.

[Translation]
Social Housing
Mr. Gilbert Fillion (Chicoutimi):
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing  Order 36 and speaking on behalf of my constituents, I wish to present a petition asking the government to reinstate fully the budget for social housing.
This petition, with 293 signatures, is being presented to ask  the government to act on its responsibility to the most vulnerable members of our society by guaranteeing them the right to housing.
[English]

Abortion
Mr. Jesse Flis (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Foreign Affairs):
Mr. Speaker, it is my duty, pursuant to Standing Order 36, to present a petition signed by residents of the greater Toronto region.
The petition states the response to petition 343-2034 avoided the thrust of the petition, namely the rights of individuals under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the individual and dealing with abortion and Bill C-43.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms applies to the Parliament and Government of Canada and article 15(1) states:
``Every individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to equal protection and equal benefit of the law''.
The petitioners pray and call upon Parliament to urge the government to prepare a response to this petition which addresses why ``individuals within the bodies of their mothers'' are not individuals with rights under the charter for Parliament to honour.
The petitioners urge the government to honour Parliament's obligation under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and provide equality before and under the law and equal protection and equal benefit of law for individuals within the bodies of their mothers from fertilization to the end of the birthing process.
In duty bound, the petitioners will ever pray.
Canada Post
Mr. John O'Reilly (Victoria--Haliburton):
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36, I am pleased and honoured to present a petition signed by a number of constituents from Victoria--Haliburton, duly certified by the Clerk of Petitions.
The petition signed by many seniors who live in and around the Diplomat apartment building in Lindsay, Ontario, request that a mailbox be located near the residence to provide them with better access to Canada Post services.
The petition was circulated by Mrs. Jean Birchard, a resident of the apartment building, and calls on Parliament to consider locating a mailbox in the vicinity of 53 Adelaide Street North for the convenience of the residents of this building and the surrounding residential district.
Killer Cards
Mr. Paul DeVillers (Simcoe North):
Mr. Speaker, I have two more petitions to present pursuant to Standing Order 36 requesting amendment to the laws regarding killer cards.
I am aware of the difficulties and the possible restriction on the freedom of expression with these petitions, but I believe that because the victims of these crimes are often women and children and these killer cards are in effect glorifying violence against women and children I must support these petitions.
Questions on the Order Paper
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Peter Milliken (Parliamentary Secretary to Leader of the Government in the House of Commons):
Mr. Speaker, Question No. Q-2 will be answered today.
Question No. 2--Mr. Taylor:
Who was asked to conduct a review of Canada Post's rural conversion plans, what resources were provided for the review process and what criteria and direction was given to those asked to conduct the review?
Hon. David Dingwall (Minister of Public Works and Government  Services and Minister for the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency):
For many years, the government has heard from concerned Canadians  across the country in regard to the closure of rural post offices and, as a result, made the commitment to review the conversion program put forward by Canada Post Corporation.
On November 12, 1993, the government declared a moratorium on the  closure of corporate operated rural post offices.
The moratorium, initially set for a period of one month, was extended  indefinitely to allow for a comprehensive assessment.
During that  period, consultations were held with Canada Post, labour leaders and various community groups.
As a result, on February 17, the government placed an indefinite  moratorium on future closures of all rural and small town post offices in Canada.
The Deputy Speaker:
The question as enumerated by the parliamentary secretary has been answered.
Mr. Milliken:
Mr. Speaker, I would ask that all remaining questions be allowed to stand.
The Deputy Speaker:
Shall the remaining questions stand?
Some hon. members:
Agreed.
The Deputy Speaker:
I wish to inform the House that, pursuant to Standing Order 33(2)(b), because of the ministerial statement and replies, Government Orders will be extended by eight minutes.
Supply
Government Orders
[English]

Supply
Allotted Day--The Budget
Consideration resumed of motion
The House resumed consideration of the motion.
Mr. Morrison:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. Immediately prior to members' statements we had a speech from the hon. Minister of Public Works and Government Services. It was very eloquent although somewhat inflammatory.
I believe that there is still time remaining on the clock and I am wondering if comments on that matter are possible.
The Deputy Speaker:
That is an excellent question from the hon. member.
The procedural expert advises me that if the minister who made the statement is not here, a member who wishes to reply may not do so.
Another time perhaps the hon. member would persuade the minister to come back.
However, that was a very good procedural effort.

Mrs. Diane Ablonczy (Calgary North):
Mr. Speaker, I believe there are two related fundamental questions which must be considered when considering the motion before the House today.
First, can Canadians continue to live on borrowed money?
Second, should Canadians continue to live on borrowed money?
We ought to acknowledge that it is very pleasant to live on borrowed money.
Certainly Canada has enjoyed that position for over 20 years now and it is even desirable if only immediate benefits are the consideration.
However, I believe that living on borrowed money for our country amounts to short term gain and a lot of long term paying.
Addressing the question of whether Canada can continue to live on borrowed money, the answer obviously has to be no, not in the long term.
We are already starting to drain away money that would otherwise have been available to fund our health care education and pension programs by the interest obligation that we have built up on the half trillion dollars plus that we have managed to borrow in the last 20 years.
Our interest obligation is this year $41 billion. We are borrowing only $39.7 billion.
Therefore we are not even borrowing enough this year to cover our interest payment.
We are going to have to take away tax dollars that could have gone to fund social programs if we had not built up in the last 20 years this interest obligation.
This means also that for 21 years plus our creditors have funded an artificially high standard of living for our country.
I would submit that anyone who lives on an artificially high standard of living for very long is going to have face reality one day.
That includes our country.
Unfortunately the government says that it intends to put us even further in the hole over the next three years by borrowing another $100 billion more than we earn.
Even if interest rates were so fortunate as to stay at around 5 per cent, on the $100 billion the government is going to borrow we will have to pay each and every year forever $5 billion.
That is a lot of money.
The interest today that we are paying amounts to $1,200 per second and that is money that could be helping a lot of Canadians if it were not going down the drain in interest on high living for the last 20 years.
Anyone who has ever run a business or managed a household budget or even the allowance in their piggy bank knows that if one keeps spending more money than is coming in soon one will find oneself in trouble.
That is a simple fact of life.
Unfortunately our leaders seem to be the only ones who act as though real life truths need not apply to their decisions.
As more and more of our income is spent each year on interest, we are going to have less to spend on health care, education and pensions, let alone on the new programs that governments keep introducing, 18 in this particular budget.
Every dollar that has to go to government in taxes to pay this interest and to pay for government programs is one less dollar that can be invested to build and create business and job producing activity.
This is not a healthy state of affairs.
Sir Roger Douglas, a former finance minister of New Zealand, stated:
``The only justification for the government taxing people and then spending the money for them is if the government can demonstrate some special skill or knowledge that the average person does not have in how to spend the money''.
He then said:
``I simply do not believe that''.
I think a lot of Canadians would agree that governments in the past and present have not demonstrated any special skill in spending our money for us as Canadians.
Saddest and most disturbing, however, are the consequences of governments setting this great country on a course of living on borrowed money. It makes future taxpayers the ones who get stuck with the bill.
Sometimes driving down the road one will see a bumper sticker, quite often on a nice motor home, saying:  ``We are spending our children's inheritance''.
This is true:
in Canada today we are spending our children's inheritance.
We are spending their future earnings.
This reprehensible behaviour amounts to taxation without representation.
Instead of paying our own way, enfranchised Canadians today through their elected leaders are literally spending money that will have to be paid back with interest obligation by our children and our grandchildren.
We have heavily mortgaged their future so that today we can have expensive and comfortable programs.
We are not justified in spending the birthright of future generations of Canadians.
I would further submit that we have a duty to protect the interests of those who have no say in the burdens that are being placed upon them.
They are the ones who are going to have to live with our mistakes.
In 20 short years we are already worse off than if we had not borrowed a nickel.
The money that we bring in today is now not entirely going to fund the help that we want to give disadvantaged people of our society. Some of it is already starting to go to pay interest.
As that increases more and more of our income and our tax dollars are going to have to go to interest. We will have fewer and fewer dollars to fund important programs like health care and education and pensions.
Pretty soon those programs are going to be squeezed out of existence.
They are already being eroded right across the country.
We in the House ought to join together and make the sometimes tough choices needed to secure our children's future.
The motion before us today makes four modest proposals to take us in that direction.
First, the motion urges us to say no new programs and, second, to put spending caps on the discretion of government.
The Reform Party has proposed a very modest spending cap of only 6 per cent.
There is barely a household or business in the entire country that has not cut its spending by at least 6 per cent and, I would venture to say, a good deal more than that in the majority of cases.
Yet members of the House in both the Official Opposition and the government parties would not even support such a minuscule spending cap by the House.
I say that is to our shame.
The third proposal we have put forward is to require progress reports on deficit reduction by those responsible for handling our finances and our fiscal affairs.
That is an accountability measure which is only prudent in any company or enterprise.
Last, as leaders, as people who have been entrusted not only with today's affairs but with the well-being of future Canadians, we have to put together a plan for corrective action where we should not be moving further in the direction of living on borrowed money.
For the sake of young and unborn Canadians, I appeal to members of the House today to show the courage and the leadership to support the motion before us.
[Mr. Jesse Flis (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Foreign Affairs):
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for her arguments which were presented very clearly.
I am a little shocked that she and her party would want to cut and not invest in the youth service corps, something which they threw into their motion.
My question for the hon. member is: Which is going to cost the taxpayers of Canada more?
Is it the young people between 18 and 25 who are not in school or not working? Their self-esteem goes down.
They will probably get hooked on drugs and steal to pay for the drug habit.
The girls will probably hit the streets as prostitutes.
Does the hon. member feel that she will save the taxpayers more money by driving our young Canadians in that direction, or will we save Canadians more money by putting these 18 to 25 year old Canadian students who are probably dropouts, not in school, cannot get jobs, by involving them nine months in a youth corps program where they will work on community projects, where they will learn skills which will build up their self-confidence, their self-esteem and hopefully at the end of the youth corps program be able to find a job?
Which will cost the taxpayers more, her idiotic program of cutting the youth corps or what we are presenting in the youth corps?
Mrs. Ablonczy:
Mr. Speaker, the doom and gloom parade by the member opposite in his comment would do the Reform Party proud, I would think.
I must say I do not think words like idiotic really add a great deal to the debate.
As leaders of this country we have an obligation to discover and consider serious issues in a serious and thoughtful way.
I would appeal to the member opposite, through you Mr. Speaker, to do that for the sake of Canadians who are looking to us for leadership.
In the past 20 years, with a great deal of borrowed money from our youth, we have put into place, and the government opposite was responsible for much of this especially in the early days, program after program after program that was supposed to help Canadians, young Canadians, increase employment and do all of the things the government says it is going to do.
All it has done is add to the burden placed on our young folks.
I would challenge not only the hon. member who just spoke but all members of the government to think about what is going to happen in 20 years.
Are the young people of the country who are going to be our taxpayers, business people and the people responsible for our affairs going to stand and say: Good for you guys, spending this money on a youth corps in 1994?
Are they going to say boy, did you ever turn our country around, or are they going to say look where you guys put us, look at the hole we are in, look at the tax burden that is on us, look at the irresponsible way you handled our future?
I ask the member to ask himself that question.
[Mr. Sarkis Assadourian (Don Valley North):
Mr. Speaker, when reading the opposition motion I came across two sections which say``with all parties''.
This party has a plan and we want to get it through with the co-operation of the other parties.
I hope thon. members on the other side will support our plan.
I also mention that statements made today in the House sound very similar to the statement of the former Prime Minister who said that there would be jobs for Canadians by the year 2000.
The government does not have the time to wait for the year 2000 to put Canadians back to work.
We have to put Canadians back to work now.
This morning in my constituency office I met two young people who used to be in a position of giving jobs to others.
Now they are looking for a job.
These people cannot wait until the year 2000 to get a job.
We all know what happened to the previous Prime Minister.
Mrs. Ablonczy:
Mr. Speaker, with respect to the first comment of the hon. member about developing a contingency plan in consultation with all parties, I would emphasize that this is a contingency plan for corrective action, if we read the words in the motion.
We do not consider the present plan put forward by the government to be the proper plan for Canada for reasons that I have just expounded on at some length.
However the plan we need to put together is a corrective plan.
I would say again that yes, we can spend whatever money is necessary to put a few people back to work.
Yes, we can do that and it would be nice for them.
What I would appeal to the House to do is look at the long term and look at what is best over all.
Mr. David Chatters (Athabasca):
Mr. Speaker, I rise in the House today to speak in support of this motion.
I and my party believe that if we do not drastically alter our economic policies Canadians will be facing an economic crisis in this country equal to or worse than what was experienced in the 1930s.
Many senior Canadians today still remember the famine, financial hardship and personal despair of those years.
Today, because of government overspending, ballooning deficits and accumulated debts of the last 25 years, we could soon be facing a similar disaster.
Clearly, when one cuts through the rhetoric, misguided optimism and smoke and mirrors of this recent budget, it does nothing to set a new direction or chart a new course for economic healing that we must see if we are to avoid this looming crisis.
Therefore we in the Reform Party are presenting some constructive actions and offering co-operation to the government in seizing the window of opportunity before it is lost for another four or five years.
In the business and non-political community there is general acceptance that we cannot continue to spend huge sums of money over and above our income.
Why is it then that the government accepts with many accolades that we should spend in the next fiscal year $3 billion more than last year, accept another deficit of $40 billion and accept $100 billion more debt in the next three years on top of the outrageous $500 billion we now carry?
In modern history where are the examples of countries where governments with debt loads of 100 per cent of GDP were able to stimulate economic growth without becoming involved in another world war?
I submit there are many examples of the consequences of government overspending and mismanagement which have brought once prosperous countries to their economic knees.
Sweden and New Zealand are but two of the most recent examples.
Speakers and writers from these countries do not like to talk much about the real devastation and hardship that the economic restructuring of these economies caused.
However, if one probes behind the stories of rebirth and of economic health there are also stories of despair, bankruptcy and real hardship when there is a major withdrawal of the social safety net, a devaluation of the currency and a downsizing of the bureaucracy.
In spite of these examples, as I have listened to the debate since budget day, I have heard one government member after another praise the Minister of Finance for presenting a budget that will solve the economic ills we face today.
They accuse us of being uncaring, racist and without compassion because they say our proposals are Draconian and meanspirited.
The best example of this rhetoric was this morning when we were accused of abandoning the interests of Canadian youth.
The best example of the abandonment of the interests of our Canadian youth has to be the mortgage that we have placed upon the youth of today, offering as an alternative nine months of community service cutting grass and cleaning up the highways for students who worked hard and struggled long hours to achieve university degrees and high school diplomas.
It is a disgrace.
I suggest members opposite pull their heads out from the sand and stop misleading and deceiving Canadians by telling them that we can solve our current problems with no hardship or sacrifice.
This might have been true at least to some degree when Mr. Trudeau defeated Mr. Joe Clark, or even when Mr. Mulroney defeated Mr. John Turner.
However, today with the debt growing faster and faster and with debt servicing combined with social spending consuming 90 per cent of government spending, there is simply no miracle cure and no easy way out.
Therefore let us be honest and, in the best interest of all Canadians, let us work together to inform Canadians about the seriousness of this problem and then present to them a credible, rational, well thought out plan to deal with the crisis.
It is also clear from the debate on the budget that the members of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition have no grasp of the problem or any rational solution when they suggest that social spending is untouchable and if we cut the fat from government operations we can return to economic health.
Surely they must realize that the entire cost of government operations amounts to only half of the current year's deficit.
I believe that an examination of political history here and elsewhere would show that it would be in the best interest of this government to demonstrate some honesty and leadership in dealing with the deficit.
Clearly if a government is dedicated to improving Canada's economic health and moving it out of these tough economic times it will have to make those moves in the first year of its mandate, if it is to reap the benefits of those measures at the polls in the next election.
If those members opposite continue to mislead Canadians with statements like ``we don't really have a spending problem, we have an income problem'', they surely will only incur the wrath of the electorate when they realize the utter incompetence of such statements.
I know without a doubt what the consequences would be if I or any of the members opposite were to go out and purchase with borrowed money an expensive car, a luxurious home or an opulent boat and then when the banker presses for payment tell him:  ``I don't have a spending problem; I have an income problem''. The consequences of such an action would be the same as the consequences for Canada:  bankruptcy and financial collapse.
In conclusion, I urge these members opposite to remove their partisan blinkers and for the preservation of our wonderful country please examine carefully and honestly where we are heading in this country.
With the same care and honesty, I urge members to examine this motion and our offer of co-operation before they cast their votes in the traditional partisan political fashion.
[Mr. Peter Adams (Peterborough):
Mr. Speaker, I have been listening with interest to speeches from the other side of the House today, attacking our efforts to assist the young people of Canada, giving derogatory descriptions of the youth corps before it has been possible to put the youth corps in place and see what can actually be done.
From what I hear people think it is a make work project, moving sand and gravel from one place to another; whereas in fact it is a program designed to help communities and young people to gain experience which will bridge the difficult transition between school of various sorts and the workplace.
The member just said that the youth corps program was our only alternative for these young people.
I wonder where the member has been in the last 10 years, the years in which the deficit has grown to these astronomical levels.
We think in the United States of Mr. Reagan, in Britain of Mrs. Thatcher and in Canada of Mr. Mulroney with their slash and burn policies which not only created these huge debts and deficits but created in each of the jurisdictions serious unemployment problems, particularly among the youth who are being attacked by this motion of the Reform Party today.
What suggestions does the member have other than slash and burn for helping young people today, next week and the week after?
Mr. Chatters:
Because we on this side of the House have yet to receive any details about the youth corps program we can only judge the merits of the program from similar programs presented by previous governments.
In my opinion those programs were dismal in providing meaningful employment to students of our universities and high schools.
Certainly that has been the experience.
Further to the hon. member's comments, the best thing we could do for our young people is to cut the tax burden and allow private enterprise to create jobs and get the economic engine of this country rolling. Stop trying to do what governments have been trying to do since time immemorial, that is create employment through government spending and borrowing money.
[Mr. Paul Szabo (Mississauga South):
Mr. Speaker, the previous speaker gave some numbers in the House about the Liberal Party adding another $100 million to the debt over the next three years.
Other speakers from the Reform have indicated the same thing as if their financial plan during the campaign would not have added to the debt.
I wonder why there is this double standard.
In his closing statement the hon. member said we have to stop spending on these kinds of programs for the benefit of all Canadians.
I wonder if the member might want to consider whether he talking on behalf of Canadians who have rather than on behalf of Canadians who have not.
Mr. Chatters:
Mr. Speaker, I am a Canadian who considers himself to be a have not.
I am very much a grass roots Canadian. I speak for those of my social and economic level.
It would appear to me from what I have heard from the members opposite that perhaps the government wants us all to be have not people in our society.
We are not saying that many of the programs proposed in the budget are not good programs, are not worthwhile programs, our problem comes when we borrow money and we increase debt to support those programs.
If we can afford these programs we should provide them for Canadians. At a time when we can no longer afford them we have to cut back on programs provided for Canadians.
Mrs. Marlene Catterall (Parliamentary Secretary to President of the Treasury Board):
Mr. Speaker, may I indicate to the Chair and to the House that government members speaking on this motion will be dividing their time for the remainder of the debate.
I am pleased to have this opportunity to rise in the House and address this motion.
On February 22 the Minister of Finance tabled the government's first budget.
It was a budget based on, as the minister said at that time, an unprecedented process of consultation with Canadians.
What we e as a government have put before the House and before the Canadian people in our first budget is only a first step.
It will not solve everything overnight but it will provide a basis that we can build on.
This is not a simplistic unidimensional step.
It is the first step to economic recovery, to the well-being of individual Canadians and to the elimination of the deficit.
We have listened to Canadians.
We are pursuing our game plan and it includes jobs and growth.
During the election campaign we made very clear the solutions we were proposing and we are following through on these commitments.
Members opposite would have you believe that they somehow hold some kind of secret solution.
Yet their only solution is to cut.
This is a scorched earth policy and we feel, frankly, that what Canadians said on October 25, 1993 was that they were burned enough by that approach.
One of the best examples of what can be expected from the government is a positive, constructive program, the infrastructure program.
Infrastructure Works is a shared cost initiative which brings all levels of government together working on opportunities for Canadians, working on job creation, working on investing in the very foundation of our economic prosperity for the future.
Each level of government, federal, provincial and territorial, and municipal will contribute $2 billion for a total of $6 billion over the next two years.
This is what Canadians want to see, governments co-operating to solve our problems, not governments at each other's throats, competing with each other.
The program is also open to private sector investment in these public purpose initiatives, if such investment is useful and can assist local governments.
A federal share has been allocated to each province and territory based on a formula melding population and unemployment shares, a formula I might add that was agreed to by all first ministers in December.
Each province and territory will match the federal allocation as will local governments.
Infrastructure Works is intended to speed the economic recovery while meeting the well documented needs of renewing and upgrading Canada's infrastructure.
The program should help municipalities and communities use new, efficient and environmentally sound technologies as well as improve our competitiveness and productivity.
There has been a dramatic decline in what we have invested in infrastructure over the last few decades.
In the 1960s the three levels of government invested 4.3 per cent of gross domestic product in infrastructure.
This declined in the 1980s to 2.5 per cent.
Many members in the House and I have substantial municipal experience.
We know from experience that a road not repaired and maintained today means one spends 10 times as much when that road falls apart.
We know that allowing bridges to rust and collapse means a much bigger burden for the next generation than the cost of repairing that infrastructure today.
We know that unhealthy water systems in our communities are neither in the best interests of this generation or the next, nor is it responsible of us to leave that burden to the next generation.
We have just started to renew the Great Lakes clean-up agreement with the province of Ontario.
The province has stressed to us and the International Joint Commission has stressed the important contribution that this program can make to cleaning up our lakes and rivers by having sound water and sewage systems.
These are not inconsequential projects now or for the future.
These are a protection of our future.
There are communities right in this region that cannot develop their industrial parks because they still have old wooden sewers from the last century.
Those are the kinds of investments that are going to be made under the infrastructure program.
They will allow the communities of Canada to prosper and grow and provide employment to this generation and provide a sure economic future for the next generation.
This program is going to create jobs immediately.
Directly up to 65,000 jobs will be created in the municipal infrastructure program and with indirect jobs many more than that.
That is what the desperate people out there wanting employment, wanting a better future for themselves and their children, wanting to see the government doing, and that is what we are doing.
This is a program municipalities have wanted for 10 years.
I was sitting on the national board of the Federation of Canadian Municipalities in 1983. We were gathering information to demonstrate the deteriorating nature of the infrastructure of Canada and the negative impact it was having on our potential for economic growth and jobs and a better future for our citizens.
Ten years ago the municipalities and the provinces agreed that this program was what was needed across our country.
The government is implementing it and will make it a success for every community across the country.
Yet that is the program endorsed by every municipality the members on the opposite side by this motion want to cancel.
They also want to pretend that this is new money we are spending.
Liberals are responsible in government.
We know that if we want to implement a new program, and Infrastructure Works is a new program, then we have to reorder our priorities and that is what we have done.
We have not increased spending, no matter what the members on the other side want to pretend, to create this program.
We have changed other priorities.
We have cut other spending programs because we know that this program is important.
There could be no more ideal time for this kind of investment.
National unemployment is at an unacceptable level.
This is a terrible waste of human talent, a constant stress on hundreds of thousands of households across Canada.
Infrastructure Works will have a significant impact on unemployment.
The government believes it should keep its promises.
We should put Canadians back to work.
We should allow our communities to use the new and innovative technologies in the upgrading of water and sewage treatments that is going to provide new opportunities for Canada in the future.
This program is an investment in the future;
in the future of individual Canadians, in the future of our communities and in the future of our nation.
[Mr. David Chatters (Athabasca):
Mr. Speaker, I would just ask the hon. member a question.
Our concern is not whether it is new money or old money but whether it is borrowed money.
Does she not agree that we are dumping the burden on the next generation?
Also does the member not realize that amortizing $6 billion over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years that we would also pay many times the original cost of these projects?
Mrs. Catterall:
Mr. Speaker, the House and Canadians have had 10 years of promises that would have slashed, burned, cut and destroyed programs that would bring the debt and the deficit down.
Has that happened?
No, it has not.
We have presented a three-year program toward the first real reduction in the deficit that this nation has seen in many years.
We are going to do it by cutting spending and we have done that dramatically in this budget.
But we are also going to do it by increasing the prosperity of the country.
That is what Canadians want us to do.
If the hon. member's roof was leaking, would he leave it until it collapsed and he had to replace the whole roof?
If his foundation was leaking, would he allow it to fall to pieces before he replaced it?

If there was poison in his water supply, would he allow his children to drink it?
Of course not.
If necessary, would he borrow the money to fix those problems?
Of course he would because he knows it costs far more to replace a broken roof, to replace a basement, or to heal a sick child than it does to fix the cracks.

[Translation]
[Mr. Louis Plamondon (Richelieu):
Mr. Speaker, I was surprised to  hear the last speaker talk about the quasi rebirth of Canada under the infrastructure program.
Of course new infrastructures will create some  temporary jobs, but the public, the people of Canada were expecting much more than that in terms of governmental economic policy.
In that  respect, the red book gave the impression something concrete could be achieved.
When the hon. member talks about spending, why does she claim to  support this budget if it failed completely, except for promising committees would be set up, to address the tax havens enjoyed by certain multinational corporations, in particular, and certain billionaires?
Over $16 billion are reported to be stashed away in tax havens  every year, which could otherwise bring in hundreds of millions in tax revenue for the government.
Why has it not been suggested to pay for the  infrastructure program, this program she speaks so highly of, with the money saved by passing a bill on tax havens and another on family trusts, instead of making mere gestures, such as the Liberals are making, while they ranted and raved against family trusts when they were the opposition?
Why not also collect these hundreds of millions? Why not accept to  review each departmental budget item? We could easily save, not just  hundreds of millions, but a few billion dollars which could pay for the infrastructure program without increasing the deficit?
I am surprised that the hon. member only mentions the costs and  benefits of the infrastructure program. She is not looking for ways,  however easy, to get money from those who have it, namely the rich, the multinational corporations in particular, who benefit from an overly  permissive policy.
One last point. Canada's foreign policy should be reviewed.
Take  the Canadian embassy in Tokyo for example. We all know that the market  value of the lot across from it, which is vacant, is $2 billion and that there are potential buyers prepared to pay $2 billion for a piece of land next to our embassy.
Why not?
Mrs. Catterall:
Mr. Speaker, I find it the hon. member's comments  rather mean.
He knows full well that these things are not included in the  government's budget.
It is very nasty of him to say things like that to  Canadians, when he knows the truth.
For example, the infrastructure  program is but one phase of our economic strategy, which also includes investments in science and technology, as well as measures to help small businesses create employment.
The hon. member also knows that we have launched a project to  review, as he mentioned, each government budget item, in order to identify what needs to be done to implement effective programs.
He knows as well that our budget includes many measures to  eliminate the tax shelters he complained about.
I do not object to  hearing dissenting opinions in this House but, for the sake of our fellow Canadians, we must be honest.
[English]

Hon. Roger Simmons (Burin--St. George's):
Mr. Speaker, I too would like to say a few words on what is at the very least a fairly interesting motion.
The motion says in part that the budget plan of the government is not the solution to Canada's debt and deficit problem.
I will come back to that in a few moments but I would like to go to some other parts of the motion.
I would have thought the gentleman from Lethbridge with his long experience would have known better than to incorporate things in a motion which are already in effect or have been done.
The member for North Vancouver can laugh. Let me refer him to section (c) of the resolution and let us see if he will laugh.
I mention him for the very particular reason that his constituents will know he is identifying with the blatant falsehood contained in section (c).
The falsehood is it calls on the House and the government to produce quarterly reports on the progress being made on deficit reduction.
I ask the laughing, much amused member for North Vancouver:  As a member of this House and as a Canadian who, if we listen to his rhetoric, is very concerned about the deficit, does he not know there is a document produced regularly? It is ``The Fiscal Monitor'' put out by the Department of Finance. It reports not just quarterly as called for by the motion, but monthly.
Mr. White (North Vancouver):
The finance minister said the people of Canada cannot understand it.
Mr. Simmons:
Mr. Speaker, I am sure in time you will have the charity to allow my friend from North Vancouver to say his few words.
When he does rise I hope he will realize that something which is blatantly false cannot be be embodied in a resolution. It is blatantly false.
He changes his tune now.
He says, yes it is there but they cannot understand it.
Well, that is a different issue.
Had his friend from Lethbridge said to produce something that is understandable, but that is not what he said.
By implication he gave the impression to the people of Canada and particularly to this House that the progress report is not happening.
I say to him it is happening on a regular basis in a document called ``The Fiscal Monitor''.
I am glad for this resolution and glad for this opportunity. It puts into focus two fundamentally differing views on the role of government.
On the one hand there is this punitive philosophy underlying the opposition motion. It says that government has little to offer the economy, that government by its very nature cannot help the jobless.
That is not a perspective I subscribe to.
It is a perspective I can understand. I do not endorse it but I can respect it.
I can respect the gentleman from Lethbridge for having that point of view. That perspective mixes the worst aspects of do nothing corporatism with the slash and trash public posturing of which my friend from Ottawa West talked about a few moments ago.
More to the point, the philosophy which underlies this resolution is the very philosophy the people of Canada rejected outright last fall.
It is the philosophy the Tories paraded in this Chamber for a decade and you know what happened to them.
If you are not sure, have you heard about the Dodo bird?
They both went the same way and for the same reason:  They were out of tune with the times.
This slash and burn philosophy has been rejected outright by Canadians.
The member for North Vancouver is seized with the importance of having a fiscal monitor that is understood by people who do not have doctorate degrees in economics.
I must say, somewhat sheepishly, that several of my constituents do not have doctorate degrees in economics but they know what it is to buy groceries.
Let me put it very explicitly for the member for North Vancouver in terms of buying the groceries.
This is what the resolution of the gentleman from Lethbridge says in effect in its simplest terms.
I will use a little parable.
A family of four has to buy some groceries.
I did some checking and found that a family of four on an income of about $30,000 a year spends about $7,000 a year on groceries.
If they are a fairly typical Canadian family they spend maybe $600 to $700 on a mortgage and about $200 to $300 on a car.
One day the breadwinner in that family has a bright idea.
The light goes on and he calls the family together.
He or she, whoever the breadwinner is, calls in the spouse and the two children and says:  ``I have a bright idea. Do you know what is killing us and why we can never get ahead?
We are paying $600 a month on our mortgage and another couple of hundred dollars on the car loan. But do you know what is really killing us? We are spending $7,000 a year on groceries. I have a bright idea. We will pay twice as much on the mortgage and not buy any groceries for a whole year. No groceries for a whole year''.
We all agree that would bring down the mortgage a lot faster.
It certainly would.
Just buy no groceries for a whole year and there is an extra $7,000 to put toward the mortgage or to pay the car loan off.
I see some of the brighter members of the Chamber have twigged to the problem.
They are actually asking:  ``What are those people going to eat for a year?''
There is the rub.
That is what my friend from North Vancouver had not thought about, what they are going to eat for a year.
As Marie Antoinette said, let them eat cake, but even cake costs money these days.
What are they going to eat for that whole year while they are rushing madly to pay down their deficit, their accumulated debt, their mortgage?
I think I have made my point that whether it is a family or a nation these things have to be done in balance.
Those people who say that all we have to be preoccupied with is deficit elimination to the exclusion of everything else are not just preaching a very naive doctrine, they are misleading a lot of people.
Let us go back to section (a) of the resolution of the gentleman from Lethbridge.
Here is his solution. It is the grocery analogy I mentioned a moment ago.
It is the same idea under different terms:
cut out the groceries, do not buy any groceries for a year.
The hon. member says to place a moratorium on all new spending programs, such as youth service corps which represents 17,500 new jobs.
The infrastructure program represents 65,000 new jobs.
Residential rehabilitation assistance program represents several thousands of more new jobs.
Let the word go out. At least one member of the Reform Party, the gentleman from Lethbridge says in writing so we have to take the man at his word, would immediately move to aggravate the job situation in this country by another 100,000 jobs.
This budget is about several things.
Yes, it is about deficit reduction but it can never be about that alone. Yes, it is about job creation.
The gentleman in his motion has identified three or four particular programs but he identifies them for the purpose of asking us as a House to wipe them out, to wipe out those 100 jobs, and to drive up the unemployment rate another point or two.
As I said before, I respect the other point of view. I have difficulty understanding why it is being advanced.
It makes no sense.
It is a one-track mind approach.
We all know about the mother whose son enlisted in the military. Being a proud mother, she went down to the parade square to watch him on parade the first day.
Being an insightful mother, she noticed something in particular.
She noticed that when the drums started and the drummer beat out the left, right, left, right, left, right and the several hundreds of men and women went down the parade square, Johnny was the only one in step.
Johnny was the only one in step.
We see in editorials across this country such as in Calgary ``Martin is headed in the right direction'' and in Edmonton ``It is solemn and thoughtful and full of well worked out details. There are real spending cuts in this budget''.
This is what the editorialist says in the Edmonton Journal.
From the Canadian Chamber of Commerce we have this:  ``I think it is a doable budget''.
I could go to other parts but I have run out of time.
I appeal to my friend from Lethbridge not to be Johnny on this one.
Get in step with what the people said last fall. Get in step with what the editorialists are saying. Get in step with what the people are saying.
The people are saying that we should bring down the deficit but we should give them some jobs.
[Mr. Ted White (North Vancouver):
Mr. Speaker, I did enjoy the hon. member's speech, as I always do.
He mentioned the fiscal monitor but the Minister of Finance said in this House that the people of Canada cannot understand the fiscal monitor.
We would like to see it put in a form once a quarter so that the people of Canada can actually understand whether the deficit is being addressed or not.
The problem is that people cannot buy the groceries that the hon. member was talking about.
To buy $7,000 worth of groceries, they need to have $14,000 earned because of the level of taxation from each level of government.
Taxes are the problem.
Will the member admit that it is government overspending and government overborrowing that is the problem?
That is what creates the high taxes.
Will he admit that the budget is a fraud, should be scrapped and replaced with a real plan to get control of spending, to reduce taxes and to create jobs?
Mr. Simmons:
Mr. Speaker, on the member's suggestion about the fiscal monitor, if he wants to bring in a motion that will call for a simplified fiscal monitor, I will second the resolution for him. I am with him on that issue.
However, listening  to the last bit of juicy stuff toward the end, he lunched too long today.
The subsidized food is getting to him.
He talks about a fraud and this kind of thing.
Does he not understand or have enough charity to accept that even if people on this side of the House did not do exactly what he would want us to do at least we have the goodwill to do our best?
To suggest it is fraudulent is an insult to well intended members of this House.
I do not think he meant that for a second.
It was one of those throw away phrases in the heat of debate which he regrets already.
I can tell by the remorse on his face.

[Translation]
[Mr. Louis Plamondon (Richelieu):
Mr. Speaker, I was not surprised  that the Liberal member who just spoke ignored the concerns of the opposition parties regarding the deficit, because to the Liberals, deficits are part of their culture.
In fact, they invented them.
Our  big deficits started with Mr. Turner in 1972, 1974 and 1975, and in 1981, when the Liberals forecast a $16 billion deficit, they waited for 16 months before bringing down a budget and then produced a deficit of $38 billion by the end of 1983.
So it is perfectly normal for the Liberal member who is part of this  Liberal culture and who has been sitting as a Liberal for a long time to be unconcerned about deficits.
To them, deficits were never something  to worry about. It was just too much trouble.
I also wish to tell him that in my riding, after the Budget was  brought down, a Budget that attacked the unemployed instead of employment, the unemployed in my riding were asking:
What is the  difference between a Liberal member and the unemployed?
And the answer  was.
The unemployed used to work.
And we could also say, when we hear the Minister of Finance bring  down a budget like this, that in my riding--and you come from a nice part of Eastern Canada where there are wonderful oysters, well, we found a new way to open them, and I was talking to people from Eastern Canada who came down to demonstrate in front of Saint-Jean--just a minute Mr. Speaker, I am finishing my sentence--against the closing of the military college, and they said this--Mr. Speaker, I would like to finish so that my colleague will have a chance to respond.
The Deputy Speaker:
Order.
I believe he has clearly understood the  question.
The hon. member for Burin-St. George's.
[English]

Mr. Simmons:
Mr. Speaker, as always I thank my friend from Richelieu for his spirited participation in the debate.
I am in English for two reasons.
My French is lousy and I want to reach for a metaphor that I cannot translate yet.
We in Newfoundland talk about the pot calling the kettle black.
I seem to remember that there used to be a person with the same surname representing the same riding of Richelieu who sat in this House for the Tory Party between 1984 and 1990.
As a matter of fact he had somewhat the same features as the gentleman who just spoke.
If I may just--
The Deputy Speaker:
The time has expired.
Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.


[Translation]
Mr. Jean Leroux (Shefford):
Mr. Speaker, we have almost reached the  end of the period provided under the Standing Orders for debate on the opposition motion presented by the hon. member for the Reform Party, concerning the Budget Plan for 1994.
I think the motion presented by the Reform Party is only a partial  response to the expectations and policies I am about to explain, regarding the Budget, job creation and cuts in public spending.
As you know, Canada's economy is the worst among G-7 countries.
Recession, deficit and unemployment have become household words,  unfortunately!
Canada's monetary policy, although aimed at controlling  inflation, merely exacerbates endemic unemployment in this country.
Lacklustre job creation and the deterioration of Canada's public  finances are largely responsible for the lack of vigour of our economy.
It is not a pretty picture.
This lack of economic growth which has affected Canada for many  years has led to some very serious consequences for Canada and Quebec.
This lack of economic growth was followed by budgetary irresponsibility  in federal public finances.
At first, the Canadian government borrowed  to finance existing and new programs. Subsequently, it had to borrow to  pay the interest on previous loans, and now we are caught up in this debt cycle.
Interest payments on the national debt have absorbed an  increasingly larger proportion of government revenues.
That is where we  are now.
The debt's spiral has slowed somewhat, but this government's fiscal  policy defies all logic.
The government is doing more to increase its tax revenue than to  control its spending.
In pre-budget consultations, the Minister of Finance implied that  he clearly understood the financial reality facing the federal government.
It was an especially rude awakening when he announced a  projected deficit of $39.7 billion.
The saddest part is that the public  servants whose salaries are frozen, the military people who are losing their jobs, like the other victims of the Minister of Finance, the elderly and the unemployed, are being sacrificed for almost nothing.
We are no further ahead in reducing the deficit.
We might as well  say that the effort to reduce the deficit is practically non-existent.
In its 1994 budget, the government wants to finance its projected budget  deficit for 1994-95 by a very clear increase in direct individual and corporate income taxes.
I refer here to the revenue projections in the  finance minister's budget plan, where direct taxes are the only revenue in the Budget which could enable the government to achieve this deficit objective of $39.7 billion.
Does the government really think that it can tax the people of  Quebec and Canada more?
It is disturbing to see that one of the  solutions adopted by the government is to increase the tax burden of middle-income seniors and of middle-class taxpayers in general.
Consumers have lost confidence in the economy.
The financial  markets are skeptical about promises to balance future budgets.
In  fact, the government has not made the cuts needed to reduce tax rates in the medium term and to revive the confidence of Quebecers and Canadians.
It is glaringly obvious:
unemployment has not come down from its  high rate.
In February, Statistics Canada reported a rate of 11.1 per  cent for all of Canada, while Quebec recorded an average rate of 12.5 per cent.
Young people employed full time and men employed part time  accounted for most of the lost jobs.
Statistics Canada estimates that  the labour force declined by 15,000, a sign that many Canadians have given up looking for work.
The Minister of Finance is continuing the conservative policy of  lower benefits for most of the people.
The measure concerning low-income people with dependent children only  hides its desire to save.
It is a Tory policy with a compassionate face.
Young people will once again be the victims of reform.
These  measures will limit access and push some of these people towards social assistance.
Eastern Canada, including Quebec, will be hit especially  hard by the elimination of regional unemployment scales above 13 per cent and by the reduced number of weeks of benefits.
The unemployment problem in Canada and Quebec is that there are not  enough jobs for everyone and that people must go from one short-term job to the next.
It is not with 45,000 temporary jobs that we will give  renewed hope to the 1,590,000 unemployed in Canada, of whom 500,000 are in Quebec.
Has the time not come to reconsider work sharing for those who want  it, to put all those people back to work and return to a full-employment policy?
Furthermore, it is urgent that the government turn the situation  around to favour the development of small and medium-sized businesses throughout Quebec and Canada.
Small and medium-sized businesses create  jobs and generate wealth.
The government missed this goal it should have  emphasized more.
Today, too many urban centres look like disaster areas.
Social  inequalities are getting worse at school and in the labour market, and we are shocked by the brutal return of physical and moral poverty.
Everyone can see the homeless on the streets but few of us know that  food banks are stretched to the limit.
There is no more space.
It is always the weakest who must pay when  economic growth slows to a standstill, as you and I know.
According to the 1991 census data, the Montreal metropolitan area  holds the Canadian record for the highest poverty level: 22 per cent of the population.
Behind this figure is a social reality that Canadian  federalism cannot be proud of.
It is still possible to give Canadians  the social programs they need if we see them as a right and a necessity rather than a luxury.
Instead of proposing measures for a healthy distribution of wealth  throughout the country, the government is going after the middle class and questioning the universality of social programs, even though this policy promotes social cohesion.
In this regard, the Bloc Quebecois supports investments to consolidate  the existing infrastructure, create jobs and lower the unemployment rate, provided that Quebec be the main authority responsible.
[English]

Point (a) of the pending opposition motion presented by the Reform Party goes against these objectives of economic development for the regions.
The moratorium on all new pending programs announced in the budget is not compatible with our objective of regional development.

[Translation]
Mr. Speaker, I will now turn my attention more specifically to the  public spending cuts announced in the latest budget.
The Minister of Finance recently announced that program spending  would be reduced by restructuring the social security system, reforming the unemployment insurance system and reducing transfers to individuals, for example, family allowance payments.
However, the minister also  announced that total budgetary spending would increase by $2.8 billion until 1996.
This increase includes debt servicing charges.
In fact,  despite the cuts announced by the government, overall program spending will continue to increase.
In essence, all the government is doing is  reallocating expenditures without actually reducing government program spending.
It is not tackling head-on cases of waste and mismanagement within the  system. Instead, it is targeting social programs.
The government has not addressed the root of the problem.
Instead,  like its conservative predecessors, it hopes that the anemic economic recovery--a recovery that it has failed to stimulate--will get state revenues back on track.
The government's economic growth and inflation  hypotheses are realistic.
What is not realistic, however, given the growth of the underground  economy, is the government's belief, as reflected in the budget, that government revenues will increase at a faster rate than the Gross Domestic Product.
In short, the government is counting on the weak  recovery to bring down the current deficit.
How, under the circumstances, can the government justify increasing  its level of spending, all the more so when we know that it is currently seeking the authority to borrow $34.3 billion for 1994-95 in order to meet its financial commitments?
Mr. Speaker, I find it unconscionable that the budget provides for  an increase in public spending up until 1996.
It is absolutely  essential for the government to eliminate waste before it can put public finances in order.
The government must give the example; it must restore public confidence  as well as its own respectability.
There are a lot more savings to be  made by eliminating waste than by making cuts to social programs.
Freezing public servants' salaries, restructuring public services and  increasing the middle class tax burden are last resort solutions.
There  are other options still.
For the last three years, the Auditor General has identified waste  or unnecessary expenditures totalling no less than $5 billion annually.
This year, the Auditor General has discovered $700 million more in  squandering than in the previous fiscal year.
Merely implementing the Auditor's recommendations would bring  enormous relief, without any tax increase or social programs cuts.
The  equation is a simple one.
Taxpayers are fed up because they feel that the government is  wasting public money and is after the middle class, which is overburdened with taxes.
Five years ago, governments were making the  same frivolous expenditures and wasting just as much, but nobody said anything.
Today, because of the pressures resulting from the appalling  state of public finances, such mismanagement is strongly denounced.
Fiscal consolidation is a necessary measure at the federal level to  restore confidence among Quebecers and Canadians.
The chronic weakness of our economy is not due to a bad performance  of our foreign trade but, rather, to the stagnation of domestic demand.
The deficit must also be reduced because interests on Canada's foreign  debt are the highest among G-7 countries.
Deficit reduction is conditional upon reducing public spending and  waste, as well as eliminating tax unfairness.
This streamlining exercise  could result in savings of $10 billion.
Of that amount, five billion  dollars could be invested to stimulate employment, including by building a high-speed train line, whereas the other five billion could be used to reduce the deficit.
Such an initiative would do a lot to restore  taxpayers' confidence.
The government must give the example and restore public confidence.
A true social contract must be based on a sound and balanced tax system.
Unfortunately, it is a fact that over the last two decades governments  have only contributed to create an imbalance between taxes paid and services provided by the state to taxpayers.
In order to eliminate waste, unnecessary spending and mismanagement  within the government administration, the Bloc Quebecois proposed that the government set up a parliamentary committee to review each budget spending item, and it is asking that such a committee be created.
Setting up such a committee is justified because the latest Auditor  General's report showed that Quebecers and Canadians who believed that some public funds went to waste were right.
[English]

That is the reason we want to create an analytical and revision committee of the governmental spending programs formed by elected representatives and not by civil servants.
We believe elected representatives are entitled to supervise and ensure that the objectives of the different spending programs comply and that the allocated public funds are spent with efficiency, effectiveness and equity.
We believe that Parliament does not receive the appropriate information pertaining to the results of the different ministries and crown corporations wasting thousands of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money.
Guided by the report of the Auditor General of Canada we believe that the wasted public funds and the different cases of mismanagement are drops in the ocean.

[Translation]
A parliamentary committee responsible for reviewing government  expenditures, item by item, could ensure that Parliament and thus the public be better informed of the government's financial situation.
So,  we encourage the Reform Party to support the establishment of the parliamentary committee on the item-by-item review of government expenditures to enable us to keep a closer eye on how public funds are managed, which will greatly help bring the deficit down.
I do support point ``C'' of the motion, regarding the production of  quarterly reports on the progress made on deficit reduction.
With  regular status reports, I think we will be able to set realistic deadlines to achieve our goals.
[Mr. Peter Adams (Peterborough):
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon.  member for his remarks.
[English]

I would like to ask his opinion about a particular part of the motion to which he was speaking.
This, as he knows, is a Reform Party motion and it is an attack on various things, one of which is the government's attempts to help young people.
As has been suggested earlier, other parties in other countries which have had the Reform Party approach of cutting and burning have increased their deficits and debts.
They have also produced very high levels of unemployment. That has happened in Canada.
One thing that has not happened yet in Canada is although we have high unemployment, particularly among young people, we do not yet have the chronic unemployment which exists in these other countries, for example Britain and the United States.
As bad and sad and tragic as high unemployment is, chronic unemployment for young people is worse.
Chronic unemployment means that we have a generation which because during its formative years it has not worked is never really able to work.
I believe that is a real tragedy.
In this motion the Reform Party is attacking our attempts to help young people now.
I believe that it is already late to help our young people.
They want to leave this to the forces of the economy. I believe that to avoid chronic unemployment among young people we must act now.
I would like to ask the member what he thinks of the Reform Party's attempts to cut down the efforts we are making to help the young people of Canada now.

[Translation]
Mr. Leroux:
Mr. Speaker, as you know, I worked in education for  many years and I would like to congratulate my colleague opposite on what he said about Canada's youth.
I fully agree with the hon. member that our young people in Canada  have unfortunately been sacrificed and that at this stage there does not seem to be a policy in the budget to put our young people to work--I will not say back to work.
I think it is catastrophic for Canada to  have young people who want to earn their living one day preparing and studying very hard without even a chance of starting to work or else having to accept work that is far less than what they could do.
I agree  with the hon. member.
What we said and what we are saying is that the budget will not  spur economic recovery.
The budget that we debated only plugs the holes  and I think that it is a very small-c conservative budget, and possibly a Conservative budget as well.
Now I think, as the Bloc proposed--it is an attractive idea--we  should form a committee of the House, not a joint committee of the House and the Senate, but a committee of the people's elected representatives to look together at the government's spending item by item, so that we, the people's elected representatives--because when we go back to our ridings and when people talk about politicians in Canada, they are talking about us here in this House, and I think that we have a responsibility--should be able to review the budgets item by item and be able to make cuts where required to get the money and help create jobs.
Mr. Clifford Lincoln (Parliamentary Secretary to Deputy Prime  Minister and Minister of the Environment):
Mr. Speaker, it is with  alacrity that I take part in this debate today and welcome the opportunity to present the true picture of the government's plans to help Canadian young people help themselves to a more promising and prosperous future.
Let me begin by setting the record straight.
Contrary to the  assumption put forward by the hon. member from Lethbridge, the budget for the Youth Service Corps does not represent new spending.
The Youth  Service Corps will, in fact, be implemented using departmental resources and money from cost saving initiatives announced in the February 22, 1994 Federal Budget,  pursuant to commitments made in the red book.
The  Youth Service Corps will not put any additional pressures on our national debt.
I can assure the House we will still see a drop in the deficit, down to  3 per cent of GNP, over the next few years, in line with our budget projections.
I believe, however, that my colleague from Lethbridge and other  members of his party are being very short-sighted if they are prepared to short-change our youth.
Investing in young people is more than just a matter of dollars and  cents.
Common sense and fairness dictate that the government must act to  respond to the very difficult reality facing Canadian youth.
Perhaps  the hon. member does not appreciate just how grave the current situation is.
Let me remind the House that, for adolescents and young adults, the  recession started sooner and is lasting much longer.
The most recent labour force survey shows that, while the number of  unemployed in Canada is down, the youth unemployment rate is rising.
It reached 18.1 per cent last month, its highest level since last June. These are the official figures on young unemployed and do not take into  account many more young people who do not show up on UI lists.
Let me put that into context.
The hon. member represents  Lethbridge which, according to the latest census, has a population of roughly 54,000.
Compare that to the number of young people currently  outside the job market--at last count 428,000. That is almost eight  times the population of the city of Lethbridge.
Young people are  searching for relevant work experience that will give them saleable skills to get their foot in the job market door.
Are these the people  the hon. member from Lethbridge would penalize?
Is he prepared to tell  them we do not think they are worth the money?
At this time, I want to digress to pay tribute to a colleague of  mine, honourable senator Jacques Hébert, for his achievements and his tremendous dedication to young Canadians.
Through Katimavik, our young  learned to help each other.
They learned how to become more confident,  more enlightened and more tolerant.
They learned to make sacrifices  throughout the world to help enhance the standard of living of many of our friends in Southern countries, for whom life is sometimes a matter of survival.
It is obvious that it is in our collective best interests to  nurture and support the very people who will be tomorrow's workers and taxpayers.
On economic grounds alone, the arguments are clear.
Canada  simply cannot afford a lost generation.
Demographic trends clearly demonstrate that Canada will soon suffer a  worker shortage.

As baby boomers leave the workforce in large numbers,  as they tend to do more and more often, we will increasingly count on our young.
We will count on our young people to take over from us. They are  our hope and tomorrow's leaders.
[English]

To compete globally in the next century we will need a highly educated, highly skilled workforce.
One needs not be a futurist to know that our continued growth and prosperity depend on the workers of tomorrow, the unemployed youth of today.
There is evidence to suggest that young people who do not form an economic attachment to the labour force today will have much more difficulty in finding and keeping employment in the future.
To suggest that we should not place a spending priority on our most precious resource, our young people, leaves me questioning the commitment of the Reform Party to Canadian youth.
Even more convincing than the economic case is the moral imperative to provide our children with a sense of security, fairness and hope for their future well-being which is also our collective future.
It is heartbreaking to see young people brimming with ideas and ambition, very often far better educated than their elders, unable to apply their skills, their talents and their knowledge.
How can any of us in the elder generation be indifferent to their frustration, to their hopelessness, to their despair of today?
It is completely unacceptable that so many young Canadians today have no place to put their energy to constructive use.
I believe that every member of the House has a duty to ensure that Canadian youth do not feel rejected or ignored.
We must assure them that we appreciate not only their years of hard work acquiring an education but also their proven willingness to work and contribute to the commonweal.
We must clearly demonstrate that we are committed to helping them achieve their enormous potential and that we will work with them to accomplish their goals.
The government intends to do exactly that.
We will bring the Liberal vision for youth to life.
We are determined to implement the strategies laid out in the red book which describe our action plan for young Canadians.
The youth service corps is a key part of the Liberal promise to create jobs, to restore hope and build a stronger Canada.
The youth service corps will provide productive ways to help young people through the transition from school to the workplace.

[Translation]
The Youth Service Corps has four main objectives: community  service, understanding Canada, environmental awareness and personal development.
I hope no one will question how valuable the young are in our  society.
It is important to give our young people the tools they need  to prepare a better future for themselves by contributing to the building of our nation.
Significant measures will have to be taken, and  I think the Youth Service Corps is one of them.
So, I would ask the  hon. member from Lethbridge:
Who would see anything wrong with the Youth  Service Corps?
[English]

[Mr. Philip Mayfield (Cariboo--Chilcotin):
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the hon. member for his comments.
Many of them I can agree with. Some of them are points that I have difficulty accepting.
I am in full agreement with the statement that it is completely unacceptable that young people have no place to put their energies.
However there is a moral imperative for the youth to have a meaningful place in our society.
I agree with those statements wholeheartedly. I do have difficulty accepting a statement regarding short term views concerning the rights of youth and ascribing that to the Reform Party and to the position that we take.
We are watching from a view of history which we have watched through the 1970s when the Liberal Party was governing, through the 1980s when the Conservatives took charge.
We are at a place now where we are economically unable to continue with those types of policies.
To suggest that the Reform Party at this point comes with this resolution with no view of history does not make sense to me.
With the statements that the hon. member has made, how does he square those statements and his condemnation of the Reform Party with the history of the performance of the Liberals and the Conservative governments in the past?
We are looking for a means to hold the economy together so there will be hope, there will be promise, there will be a meaningful future for our children.
As I see it, where the government intrudes, where the government takes control, where the government creates pigeon holes and expects people to fit into those pigeon holes, it has never worked.
Therefore we are suggesting that it is time to put the initiative in the hands of grassroots men and women, to leave them with the financial resources to do the job that government has never been able to do and to have the government step back and leave private industry, individuals, the entrepreneurial spirit to do the work that has not been done before, to build the nation.
Mr. Lincoln:
Mr. Speaker, this is the fundamental difference that separates us from the Reform Party and the member laid it out very clearly.
There was an election in October, as I remember, and our party ran on a platform that said certain budgets were going to be transferred to key job creation programs.
One of the key job creation programs which was much more than a job creation program, it was also a social program of great importance, was to say that if we look at the situation of our youth today the great majority of whom are leaving school do not know where to go for work.
There is a shortage of hope.
There is complete despair.
I do not know if the member feels the same as I do.
When in my riding I meet all kinds of young people.
I could send him a a pile of CVs from young people, highly qualified, with masters and doctorates who cannot find work today.
The government has started to say: ``We have to transfer money, especially from the defence fund at a time when the cold war is over, into a youth services corps for young Canadians''.
The great majority of Canadians obviously back this theory because they elected us in large numbers as a majority party.
They did not elect the Reform Party with their view that the marketplace, the economy, dollars and cents will cure every problem.
If it had been so in the past we would not have had trade unions. We would not have had reforms of the social safety net. We would not have medicare.
We would have left it to the marketplace to sort it out.
In all places where the marketplace is paramount and exclusive the social fabric of the country is in disarray.
We do not say that government intervention is the only way to move, but surely there is a mix there in establishing constructive, social policies that can have government take a sense of direction, and give leadership.
It seems to us that if we want to give leadership the first place to put the accent is on our youth.
I am very proud that we have this program in place.

[Translation]
[Mr. Yves Rocheleau (Trois-Rivières):
Mr. Speaker, I have a  question for my hon. colleague concerning the general position of the Liberal government and how it compares to the position taken during the election campaign.
As the months go by, I find that this government is  getting better and better at half-measures.
This is clear from the red  book, long on theory, by the way, where it is stated that last fall, there were 1.6 million unemployed in Canada.
And what is the government  doing to solve the unemployment problem?
Well, it has set up an infrastructure program that will create 45,000  short-term jobs--15,000 in Quebec--in response to a situation where 1.6 million Canadians and 428,000 Quebecers are unemployed.
With respect more specifically to youth unemployment, the  government has come up with another half-measure, namely a Youth Service Corps. This program will not resolve anything or create jobs. However,  on the eve of a referendum, one component of the program will, judging from what the government member said earlier, enable young Canadians to travel and to learn more about Canada.
We all know what the implications  of this can be, what a man such as Mr. Jacques Hébert can accomplish.
We all know what the implications can be.
I would like my hon.  colleague to explain to us how this Youth Services Corps is not fundamentally a very political move by this government on the eve of the referendum?
Mr. Lincoln:
Mr. Speaker, last October, we presented to the  Canadian public a very comprehensive program.
It did not focus solely  on youth.
I used young people as an example. Our program covered the  entire social structure in Canada. It outlined our agenda in such areas  as research and development where we pledged our support to the tune of 25 per cent for environmental research and development; it announced a comprehensive apprenticeship program for the next four years, a youth services corps and an infrastructure program.
I would remind my colleague who speaks  of 45,000 jobs that Statistics Canada reports that last month, 66,000 new jobs were created.
Therefore, his figures are not correct. They should be 50 per cent higher.
Mr. Plamondon:
Not with that budget.
Mr. Lincoln:
What I mean is that--
The Deputy Speaker:
Order!
The parliamentary secretary's time has  expired.
Resuming debate, the Chair recognizes the hon. secretary to  the Minister of Finance.
Mr. David Walker (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Finance):
Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to have an opportunity to speak  with you today about the new Canadian Engineers and Scientists Program announced in the budget.
This government is committed to sharpening up Canada's  competitive edge and developing the kinds of technological capabilities that translate into new business and jobs.
With as  much as 85 per cent of new jobs being created by small and medium-sized businesses, we have placed a very high priority on support for these enterprises.
One of these measures is the creation of the Engineers and  Scientists Program.
As announced in the budget, $10 million a  year have been earmarked to implement the Canadian Engineers and Scientist Program. To help Canadian businesses build up  technological capabilities, when it begins early next year, the program will provide salary support to assist small and medium-sized manufacturing firms in meeting their needs for technical personnel.
[English]

One of these measures is the creation of the engineers and scientific program.
When it begins the program will provide support all across the country.
It is intended to help firms develop long term technological capabilities, not just short term project base needs.
It is designed to fill a gap in technological expertise that often hinders small enterprises from achieving their true potential whether in product development, productivity or both.
Clearly a company that has no one with current technological skills or training has a difficult time introducing the level of innovation that can help the company to grow and create more jobs.
The federal government can facilitate growth through this type of national program.
We can help set the stage for these firms to adjust to the significant development in manufacturing taking place around the world.
The program can provide an important focus for firms that have a potential to export.
I think this is so important.
We have to change the fact that over 90 per cent of Canadian firms do not export.
Innovation and technological transfers are the keys to success to the kind of economy we need to have for the future.
We have to look for new ways to solve old problems.
We have to make sure Canadian manufacturers develop a high degree of technology based expertise.
It is absolutely vital to any long term competitiveness and profitability in Canadian manufacturing.
While technology transfers are often difficult to define and measure we know that Canada has been weaker than most of its competitors.
We need to work together to turn this around.
We need to develop a program that is easy to use and is responsive to real need.
Statistics Canada just released a study entitled ``Strategies for Success, a Profile of Growing Small and Medium Sized Enterprise in Canada''.
In this study it is confirmed that innovation is a key factor that separates successful small and medium sized businesses from the unsuccessful ones.
To succeed firms need to be able to innovate.
However this is one of the problems we face in Canada.
A recent survey of over 9,000 small and medium sized manufacturing firms in Quebec show that slightly more than 10 per cent of the firms employ one or more engineers, with only 2,400 engineers in total being employed.
This shows the need for investment in this area.
We must invest so that our small and medium sized firms can prosper.

[Translation]
We all want to see Canadian companies establish a strong global  competitive position.
We want to see manufacturing jobs stay in  Canada.
The federal government is committed to working with the  provinces, business, labour and Canadian workers to help the process along.
The Canadian Engineers and Scientists Program will no doubt be a  vital part of that success.
[English]

Mr. Ted White (North Vancouver):
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be speaking today to the motion which addresses some of the problems of the recently announced budget.
Last Monday when I spoke to Bill C-14, the authority to borrow up to $37 billion more on the backs of the young people of Canada, I said I wished that government members would vote against the bill in order to avoid mortgaging the futures of their children and grandchildren.
Unfortunately my pleas were not heard or they were not understood or they were not convincing enough.
For whatever reason absolutely not one government member voted against adding another $1,450 in mortgaged future to every man, woman and child in the country.
Government members refused to acknowledge or are incapable of understanding the seriousness of the problem and they voted for Bill C-14.
As one person put it, because of the budget the light at the end of the tunnel has been turned out until further notice.
No light at the end of the tunnel usually means there is a wall at the end of the tunnel.
We do not have to keep speeding into a dark tunnel on this train of out of control debt.
There is a chance for government members to help stop the train.
What is needed, among other things, is for them to support the motion before us today, a motion that would foster co-operation, to place caps on spending and to develop a spending contingency plan that will stop piling debt on to our children and grandchildren.
Of course government members are always worried that our real plan is to overthrow the government so that we can have another election.
I would just like to say to them that this is simply not true.
We believe in stability in government and we will support any government at this critical time that is prepared to address seriously the issues of deficit and debt.
Government members should be placing partisan politics in second place and start admitting that Reform MPs are telling the truth about the seriousness of the problem.
If they do not believe there is a problem they should think about what has happened in Ontario. They should ask themselves:
If government spending was the answer to the problems, how come the premier of the province of Ontario has had to abandon his program of $13 billion deficits?
If it did not work for Ontario, how can it work for Canada?
The fact is that government deficits kill the economy.
Government deficits lead to high taxation and excessive regulation.
Government deficits suck the wealth out of the private sector and destroy hopes for the future.
Government deficits turn out the light at the end of the tunnel.
I find it hard to believe that at least some of the government members have not realized that the government, like ones before it, has a spending problem, not a revenue problem.
I find it hard to believe that at least some of them have not realized that we have reached tax saturation point, that it is time to abandon these possibilities of widening the tax base. It is time to realize that increasing taxes will only lead to a bigger underground economy.
Prior to the 1993 election Reform was the underdog.
If this government does not wake up, it will find that after the 1993 election Reform is the watchdog and after the next election we will be the top dog.
The best way for government members to retain their seats in the next election and to prevent Reform from winning is to support the motion before us today.
That is another bit of the free advice I give occasionally to government members to help them with their re-election.
I know that government members like to say the policies of Reform are slash and burn.
This is ridiculous rhetoric.
It really does not contribute anything to solving the problems.
The people who watch the proceedings of the House of Commons on television are intelligent, thoughtful people who can see through that rhetoric.
They understand it for what it is.
We on this side of the House try to offer constructive alternatives. We offer alternatives that are workable and reasonable.
It would not hurt for a government member to occasionally vote with us on something that we propose.
The evidence that we speak the truth is all around us.
The National Citizens Coalition, which the government would dearly like to silence, has widely distributed a taxpayers' score card. If any government member filled it in honestly, they would have to admit that the government had failed in its budget plans.
More evidence came right from the horse's mouth, so to speak, when the deputy finance minister admitted to the public accounts committee on March 9 that the tax burden on individual Canadians and corporations is higher than in any other major industrial power except France and has climbed to almost 40 per cent of the gross domestic product.
Peter Cook in the Globe and Mail on the same date wrote:
Mr. Martin may have convinced himself that economic growth and the spending cuts he announced will head off a debt crunch, and he has convinced his boss--
Do we know who that is, Mr. Speaker?
--who is rather easily convinced on this subject.
But at the great bar of public opinion he is not doing so well.
Not only has he failed to convince most Canadian economists and the Canadian media, but he is facing an international audience that is getting rather peppery and impertinent.
Reports in the financial circles of Germany and the U.K. criticized the failure to act on the spending and predicted that the Canadian dollar would continue to slide.
The proof is out there for us all to see;
another third of a cent drop in the dollar last Friday, almost four cents since the election.
Is the government proud of this wonderful achievement?
Can government members not see that this will lead to higher interest rates, higher inflation and no possibility of getting control of this deficit?
Anyone with a calculator can see that we are already off the targets that were set in that budget.
Even the government's infrastructure program, which was supposed to kickstart the economy, has become a scandalous wish list of pork barrel politics and make work projects.
In a news release on February 18 by British Columbia-Canada infrastructure works it was revealed that short and long term job creation are no longer essential criteria. They have been reduced to only important criteria.
The item at the top of the list is now incrementality and/or acceleration of investment, whatever that means.
Let's face it, it is a mess and it is not going to get better as a result of the budget.
Our Reform motion today tries to address some of the problems and it promises co-operation.
If I were a betting man I would bet that the government members will do the usual thing and vote against it without having any good reason to do so.
The Globe and Mail editorial on the morning after the budget said:
The budget makes a mockery of Jean Chrétien's promise to return to the good old days.
In the good old days the future was not mortgaged to the selfishness and cowardice of the current generation.
I am not a coward.
I am prepared to tell it as it is, and I am not afraid to support decisive action.
I am also not selfish about it.
I have taken a voluntary pay cut and refused to sign the form making me eligible for the gold-plated MPs' pension plan.
I have proven that I am prepared to make sacrifices to avoid dumping more debt on to the next generation.
I can sleep at night because I can say to the next generation that I tried to stop the debt train in that long dark tunnel while the government opened the throttle, hoping the light at the end of the tunnel would reappear only to discover there was a wall in front of it.
[Hon. Audrey McLaughlin (Yukon):
Mr. Speaker, I listened with interest to the member's statement and comments. I would like to ask the member a specific question about this motion, in particular that a moratorium be put on the court challenges program.
The motion states a new program. This court challenges program is not new.
It was cancelled by the previous government but the current government, as I understand it, has agreed to reinstate it.
It is a program that is absolutely essential to provide a way for disadvantaged groups and equality-seeking and language rights groups to pursue the rights guaranteed to them under the charter and the Constitution.
I know the member will agree with me that the rights of Canadians are sacred to this nation, but rights without the ability to implement them and to seek equality in those rights are in fact meaningless.
I would say to the member that I know his party's position, very often stated, is:
Why can't all Canadians just be treated the same.
I would agree, why can't all Canadians just be treated the same. However, in reality and in the real world women, disadvantaged groups, persons with disabilities and visible minorities are not treated all the same.
The intent of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms is to enshrine in our country the importance that we treat each citizen with equality.
I would ask the member how he can justify this program, a relatively small expenditure, being wiped off the map by the Reform Party?
Do they not support the equality of all citizens in this country?
Mr. White (North Vancouver):
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for her question.
We in the Reform Party made it very clear that we support equality of all people regardless of their race, religion and province of origin.
In fact I gave a speech to that effect this morning.
Specifically the member asked about the court challenges program and, as she quite correctly stated, it has been reintroduced.
It was a very expensive program and had been used widely by special interest groups to press their own agenda on the backs of the taxpayers who frankly are fed up with this type of government redistribution of wealth.
We would favour getting rid of that program again and taking some load off the backs of the taxpayers.
[Mr. John O'Reilly (Victoria--Haliburton):
Mr. Speaker, the motion deals with the infrastructure program.
The member for North Vancouver has indicated nothing in constructive alternatives to that program.
I wonder what he wants me to tell the people in the town of Lindsay and the Lindsay police force which is planning to build a new building under this plan and the people in the town of Haliburton who I have met with who have plans to spend money under the infrastructure program.
We have 30 per cent unemployment in the town of Haliburton.
What does the member want me to tell those people who will not get a job because of that?
Mr. White (North Vancouver):
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for the question.
Anywhere in this country the portion of funding that comes from the federal government will be borrowed because the federal government runs a deficit.
The portion of the money used at the provincial level will be borrowed because all of the provinces are running a deficit.
At the municipal level it will mean a taxation increase for homeowners to fund their portion.
Reform's answer to all of this is not to keep piling debt on to people and increasing taxation, but to get control of government debt so that we can reduce taxation which makes the economy prosper and everybody is better off.
The infrastructure program is not creating jobs.
For the most part all it is doing is expanding a little bit the current functions of the municipalities without them employing a single additional person to their present staff.
Mr. Philip Mayfield (Cariboo--Chilcotin):
Mr. Speaker, if an analogy can be used to describe this year's federal budget, I would suggest the analogy of a rusted out pickup truck patched with Bondo and painted the same colour as the red ink book.
The budget is a patch-up job that seems to do very little to control the source of Canada's deficit problem.
New programs have been introduced that require even more borrowed money. Each program represents an attempt to avoid the real problem, which is the government's lack of will to deal with a nation crippling deficit.
The infrastructure program is a large part of this problem avoidance.
Jobs, jobs, jobs, we heard hon. members opposite cry on the campaign trail last fall.
The promise of permanent jobs in this program is an illusion.
The jobs created will last just as long as government money flows into this infrastructure program but not much longer.
By the same token, these jobs will not only cause the federal debt to rise, they will force the other two levels of government to increase their debts as well.
The finance minister takes credit for not raising the tax rate.
The visible tax rate may not have been raised but the various arms of government through which taxes are collected have been extended.
The same taxpayer must now pay for more federally directed programs through the broader reach of government.
The additional debt to be incurred by all levels of government involved in the infrastructure program will result in about a $500 million annual increase in the deficits.
This federal program is demanding that the provincial and municipal levels of government adopt its policy of increasing deficit spending.
Some provincial governments like Newfoundland may not fully participate in this program because they are already too heavily in debt.
Other provinces have reluctantly conceded to the program only because of the pressure they receive from the municipalities.
Even the municipalities are reluctant to participate because of the enormous additional expense. These extra costs go far beyond what they can reasonably add to their budgeted expenses.
However, because of the extra federal cash available politically both the provinces and their municipalities must enter this federally contrived competition for more transfer dollars.
The problem of paying for this program remains whether the money is accepted or not.
Whether we take the cash or not we have to pay the taxman because the money will be spent.
The money will be borrowed to spend and the burden of paying interest on that will be borne by the taxpayer.
Some of the largest cities may view this program from a completely different perspective.
For them this may be a windfall.
The federal government has taken on the role of Santa Claus, granting to them any project within reason that they can dream up.
Some projects likely to receive funding can hardly be considered infrastructure types.
One project likely to gain approval is the Quebec City convention centre.
Many would question this as infrastructure.
While some communities are in desperate need of infrastructure upgrading, others will be using these tax dollars for projects that are ridiculous for financially broke governments to even consider.
Can we expect more projects as we saw from the previous government like the Museum of Humour in Montreal which is a joke of a project, approved and funded by all three levels of government?
Even if we could afford to undertake the Liberal infrastructure program, it is still flawed.
Municipalities have been provided only two years to approve and implement projects which must be completed within just three years.
Any projects currently in place are not eligible and I fear the least infrastructure-like projects will get priority in the rush for approval.
As well, the haste to completion will result in a lower quality end product with likely cost overruns to be fully borne by the municipalities.
I am concerned that this infrastructure program will end up yielding the same results as the Ataratiri Housing Project in central Toronto which was reported in the press.
The description of this municipal housing project has similarities to the infrastructure program.
On this Toronto housing project $265 million was spent and not a single residence was ever built.
I would like some assurance from the former Mayor of Toronto, now the hon. minister responsible for the infrastructure program, that the mistakes made in this Toronto project will not be repeated again on a $6 billion scale.
This infrastructure program serves as a reward to many municipalities that have neglected adequate maintenance.
Rewarding negligence is found in another program adopted by the budget, the residential rehabilitation assistance program, or the RRAP.
This program is designed to assist individuals who own residences that do not meet adequate living standards.
The RRAP provides forgivable grants and loans.
Forgivable grants are loans converted into grants after five years ownership has passed since the work was completed.
The forgivable grant portion of the program cost the Canadian taxpayer $53.7 million in 1993.
Additional fully repayable loans worth $10 million were also granted.
However, in 1993 almost $1.5 million worth of previous loans were in default.
The residential rehabilitation assistance program as I understand it is intended to raise the standard of housing for those people with low incomes.
This in itself is a worthy cause. As worthy as this may be the main problem with this program is the same problem we have with the infrastructure program.
The RRAP will take another $100 million of borrowed money to finance it and this borrowed money will be added to the national debt and then we and our children can pay interest on that also.
However, there are some other reasons why I resist the RRAP.
They are based upon some knowledge of some of the abuses that have taken place in the past.
Homes have been renovated and upgraded with the result being an increased sale value which made selling the house an attractive option that was taken advantage of.
Another aspect I resist is the arrangement to provide loans which are simply not being repaid as agreed.
In the budget other costly programs were introduced. The cost of scientists and engineers program will be $10 million annually.
It is designed to help businesses hire new technical staff with government subsidies.
A similar program is the youth services corps which also acts as subsidies to businesses hiring youths.
As admirable as these programs seem they put businesses which are able to participate in the program at a competitive advantage over those that do not quality.
Lowering the cost of research and production for a business which normally is not competitive or viable could force other self-sustaining and competitive business out of the market.
Both these programs have admirable motives but have potentially dangerous consequences that could place Canada at a disadvantage in world markets.
It is always a disappointment for a person who has worked hard to see his or her business grow and then see a competitor come in and receive government money that instantaneously makes them ten times larger than their years of work have accomplished and the business become unviable because of the artificial competition.
These programs will have little overall effect on employment but will force us to maintain current or higher levels of deficit spending and will not permit any overall lowering of business taxes which are the greatest stimulus to increased employment.
These programs have the potential of working against the goal they were designed to achieve.
The court challenges program was reintroduced in last month's budget.
Canadian Heritage estimates show a steady increase in the money to be provided to the court challenges program.
The amount allocated for the next fiscal year, 1994-95, will be almost double what was provided in the last full fiscal year before its cancellation in 1992.
We must also take into consideration that the $35,000 available per case represents only a small portion of the entire cost that each case represents in the entire judicial system.
As well, there are a growing number of people who resent taxpayers' money being spent to argue for the rights that satisfy agendas more personal than national.
The goal of the court challenges program was introduced to help minority groups challenge the sections of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
It would be reasonable to expect that after 14 years of the existence of this charter the number of cases should be tapering off, not increasing.
[Mr. Julian Reed (Halton--Peel):
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the hon. member how he would respond to the people in the municipalities of my riding who have said to me very enthusiastically that because of the infrastructure program the municipalities were able to update projects that had to be delayed in the past because of the recession and that the benefits will accrue over the next 10 to 15 years, well beyond the time that the mechanics of the infrastructure program are under way.
I wonder how he would respond to that in making the statement that this is strictly a temporary thing with an end and once it is over it is over and gone.
He alluded to that early in his speech.
Mr. Mayfield:
Mr. Speaker, the problem of money needed to rebuild and renovate infrastructure within the municipalities is not a new one.
Municipalities have been short of money for this type of work for a long time.
However, the difficulty at this time with borrowing money for these projects is that this is money that will be added to the deficit and the debt and will increase the burden upon this generation and future generations to deal with the real problem of our economy, the number one economic problem of our nation, overtaxation. Every level of government suffers from that disease.
[Mr. Peter Adams (Peterborough):
Mr. Speaker, the member spoke about the infrastructure program.
As the frost comes out of the ground across Canada, hundreds and thousands of infrastructure projects are going to start creating jobs, improving our infrastructure and stimulating local economies.
He spoke about the residential rehab program.
Thousands of Canadians are going to improve their basic investments in their homes.
He spoke about the science and engineering program.
Does he know that whereas in Japan virtually every manufacturing company with 100 employees has an engineer, virtually none of our equivalent corporations does.
My question to the member is can he assure us that no municipality in his riding is going to take advantage of the infrastructure program?
The Deputy Speaker:
Order.
I ask all hon. members that when they are asked to be brief they do not go on indefinitely.
Mr. Mayfield:
Mr. Speaker, in a brief answer to the member's question concerning whether I will ask the municipalities to assure that they will not accept the money, of course I will not do that.
The reason for that is we are going to be taking part in paying for this project whether we use the money or not.
Regardless of whether we are philosophically ready to approve this type of thing, which we are not, we must take advantage of it because we are going to be paying for it anyway.
We are going to be there with our tax money like everybody else.
The Deputy Speaker:
The time has expired.
I would remind the hon. member for Cariboo--Chilcotin that he is not supposed to answer a question or put a question unless he is sitting in his seat.
I remind all hon. members of that.
Mr. Mayfield:
I am ware of that, Mr. Speaker.
I will try to contain myself in future.
Ms. Albina Guarnieri (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Canadian Heritage):
Mr. Speaker, it is with pleasure that I rise today to applaud the government's decision to reinstate the court challenges program.
The original court challenges program began in 1978 when the Secretary of State and the Minister of Justice announced the establishment of a fund to provide financial assistance for legal expenses of litigants seeking clarification of the scope of protection afforded to official language minorities under either section 93 or 133 of the Constitution Act of 1867.
Following the proclamation of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms in 1982 the Secretary of State and the Minister of Justice reaffirmed and updated the court challenges program.
The program was expanded to include sections 16 to 23 of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
In 1985 section 15 of the charter came into effect and the court challenges program was expanded to include equality rights protected under that provision.
At the same time, administration of the program was assigned to an arm's length organization, the Canadian Council on Social Development, which administered the program until 1990 when the responsibility was transferred to the Human Rights Research and Education Centre of the University of Ottawa.
The termination by the previous government of the court challenges program was severely criticized.
It was seen by many as an attack on human rights.
Former Supreme Court Justice Bertha Wilson wrote to the Minister of Justice at the time, expressing here dismay and distress over the cancellation of the program.
She wrote, in part:
``I have on numerous occasions publicly expressed the view that it is totally illusory to confer rights on people who do not have the means to enforce them''.
The program has been commended for making the critical difference between access to charter rights and no access, and this government is committed to ensuring access for Canadians to a judicial system that would otherwise be beyond reach.
We agree with Madam Wilson that rights for people who do not have the means to enforce them are totally illusory.

[Translation]
The program funds precedent-making cases that are national in  scope.
While it subsidizes individuals and groups, it is concerned with  issues that affect many Canadians.
It is not a general legal aid  program.
To guarantee impartiality of decisions on cases with financial  implications, the government has transferred responsibility for the program to independent organizations.
Since its founding, the program has been unique in Canada and has  attracted praise from outside the country as well.
It bears witness to  the fact that enshrining rights in legislation has no impact if the people they are supposed to protect lack the means to enforce those rights.
In fact, people have been very critical of the Charter has been  criticized because it is not accessible to the average Canadian.
In the  past, the Court Challenges Program has ensured access to the courts for all individuals who want to defend their language or equality rights.
The program has made it possible for all Canadians to be full  participants in the Constitution of our country.
It has been  instrumental in making charter rights accessible to francophone parents, aboriginal women and the disabled, to name only a few.
[English]

In addition to language and equality rights, the new court challenges program will fund test cases of national significance involving challenges to fundamental freedoms as outlined under section 2 of the charter.

[Translation]
These basic freedoms are as follows: freedom of conscience and  religion, freedom of thought, belief, opinion and expression, including freedom of the press and other media of communication, freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association.
I am also pleased to say that the program, as reinstated, will  continue to provide financial support for justice tests that are national in scope and concern federal and provincial statutes covered by sections 93 and 133 of the Constitution Act, 1867, section 23 of the Manitoba Act, 1870, and sections 16 to 23 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
The program will also continue to provide financial support for  court challenges of federal statutes, practices and policies, under sections 15--equality--and 28--gender equality--of the Charter, or when an argument relating to section 27 of the Charter-- multiculturalism--supports arguments based on section 15.
The new program will be administered independently by a non-profit  agency, whose board of directors will include representatives of the Canadian Bar Association, non-governmental organizations and universities.
[English]

Proposals and discussion papers on the new program have been received from a number of groups.
Officials are reviewing these carefully as they continue to work on the modalities of the program.
A number of parties have expressed an interest in working with the department to ensure the expedient reinstatement of the program.
This government recognizes and values the experience of individuals and groups involved with the former court challenges program. It is committed to seeking their views prior to making a decision on the legal structure and operating principles of the new program.
As a result of the broad range of interest, experience and expertise which will be taken into account by the government, I am confident the program will be implemented as quickly as possible in a manner accountable to the government and the people of Canada.
Mr. Andrew Telegdi (Waterloo):
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise once again on an opposition day.
The last time I stood on an opposition day was February 21.
We were speaking on petitions.
The Reform Party was advancing the notion it wanted this House to listen better.
It wanted to show that we listen better to Canadians and to each other.
Interestingly enough when my time expired one of my colleagues on that side of the House moved a motion that the time be extended so I could answer some questions. Members of the Reform Party were the ones who voted against it.
That is important for us to note.
In terms of dealing with this budget, one has to wonder whether the opposition perhaps is being a little sanctimonious.
I say that because there was an election.
We can talk all we want about petitions or referendums, but there was an election on October 25.
We went to the public with a plan. It was outlined in the red book.
We said that we were going to follow that plan if we formed a government.
Now that we are in government that is exactly what we are doing.
We are following that plan.
For members of a party that says it believes in petitions and referendums to turn around and tell us we should ignore our campaign promises to Canadians certainly is the height of cynicism and sanctimony.
Let us look at what was contained in the budget.
We talked about what we would do in the fiscal framework of present day realities.
It is in the budget that there are $5 of spending cuts for every $1 of revenue increase.
Over 80 per cent of the net fiscal improvements achieved by the government through 1996-97 comes through spending cuts.
The net savings of $17 billion achieved in spending cuts come after paying for our new initiatives.
Some $6.7 billion in current federal program spending is being reallocated to encourage growth, create jobs and find new priorities.
Those same programs are criticized in this motion.
We are talking about the infrastructure program that was the subject of such debate in the last election.
In my riding of Waterloo the Reform candidate ran in the previous municipal election.
When I won the seat to represent the Waterloo federal riding in this House, my seat on council became vacant.
During the course of the campaign the Reform candidate was saying that the infrastructure program was pork barrelling. It was a make work project and had no redeeming value.
The Reform candidate now occupies my seat on Waterloo municipal council.
And guess what?
Last week they laid out the infrastructure program for the city of Waterloo.
Waterloo is spending all its allocation.
What happened with the Reform candidate who spoke so strongly against it? The Reform candidate voted in favour of the infrastructure program.
It was unanimous.
I raise that because just like every other new Liberal member and I am sure most other members of this House I honestly and truly wanted to believe this Parliament was going to be different.
We wanted to believe we would not be playing sanctimonious games, that we would be working together to improve the operation of this House.
That is not the reality. And it saddens me because every new member on my side of the House is a small ``r'' reformer and they are acting a lot different from the big ``R'' Reformers.
We have to keep that in mind.
Staying with the infrastructure program, they say it is a make work project.
One of the infrastructure programs deals with the inventory and repair of failing sewer lines throughout the city.
Sewer lines are pretty important to any municipality.
As a matter of fact, sewer lines make us a civilized country, along with water and other infrastructure. It is the elimination of inflow infiltration to the sewer lines.
Another program is to extend the Northland 4 industrial subdivision pumping station. There are sewers, water mains and road construction projects.
They are doing that so they can have new industry locate. New industry will generate jobs and pay taxes.
Tell me the last time private enterprise built a sewage treatment plant.
Clearly that is something government has to do. It is a responsibility belonging to government.
Infrastructure:
Look around the world at countries that do not have infrastructure and you are looking at countries in the Third World.
Look at the G-7 countries and the money they spend on infrastructure.
They are spending it because they are investing in the future of their countries.
We are investing in the future of our country. We as Liberals believe in that.
Prior to the tabling of the budget many Reform members and I had occasion to attend a workshop by the Fraser Institute.
Do you know what was said?
It was said that our proposal to get our goal of 3 per cent of the GDP in terms of reducing the debt within three years was a responsible approach.
It was a rational approach.
We all knew that the deficit was going to be $32 billion this year.
The previous regime told us that.
The reality is we are looking at a much higher deficit this year.
The Reform Party in the last campaign said it was going to eliminate the deficit in three years.
What Reform members say and how they act impacts on all of us and on the legitimacy of this Chamber. For the sake of their own credibility and that of this House I would love to see them stand in this House and present to us how they would eliminate the deficit.
I put to this House that they could not do it.
I challenge them to stand up--which they will not--and say they were wrong and they cannot do it.
One of this country's tragedies is what is happening to our youth.
In 1992, 100,000 young people who graduated from high school were qualified to attend college or university but there was no place for them in our educational institutions.
Reform Party members would chop out the youth services corps which is meant to address the drastically and shamefully high unemployment rate among our youth.
To see their opposition to this corps has to sadden every member who cares about those neglected youth who are part of our constituencies.
My friend made a very able presentation on the court challenges program.
Since I have been in this House I have listened to Reform members tell us they are in touch with the needs of minority groups. I can only say after listening to them for four months that I find them compassionately challenged when it comes to those issues.
What does the residential rehabilitation assistance program mean?
It means those seniors who are unable to make repairs to their houses and move on to costlier institutions would be assisted so they could stay in their homes and thus maintain their dignity.
How anyone could oppose that is incredible.
There is the engineering program.
The University of Waterloo in my riding is the biggest supplier of workers to Microsoft in the United States.
This has to be a brain drain.
We want to keep our brightest graduates in whom we have invested so much in Canada.
This will afford us an opportunity to do that.
In wrapping this up, I was looking forward to this motion today but I find it is very much challenged in terms of reality.
I can only say I am very proud of the budget and the responsible plan we came down with in presenting that budget.

[Translation]
The Deputy Speaker:
The hon. member for Richelieu has the floor,  very briefly please.
[Mr. Louis Plamondon (Richelieu):
Very briefly as usual, Mr.  Speaker.
I always follow your precious advice.
I was very surprised to hear the previous speaker, a member of the  Liberal Party, express astonishment that a member of the Reform Party may have changed his mind or acted differently after an election.
It is  a distinctive feature of the Liberal Party to have two languages, one during the election campaign and a new, different one after the campaign.
The most conclusive evidence is the budget tabled by the  Minister of Finance, which is exactly the kind of budget tabled by former Tory ministers.
I was surprised to hear him talk about contradictions as, when the  Liberals were in opposition and the Conservatives dealt with unemployment through Bill C-113, I was also in opposition as a member of the Bloc Quebecois and I heard Liberal members cry out against that change.
The last budget is doing worse things to the unemployed but they  have not said a word.
In closing, I am very surprised to see that when  they were in opposition, they attacked the changes to old age pensions proposed by the Tory government, but now that they are in office, they do not hesitate to assail old age pensions.
I was very surprised when I heard him say that sewers are the  solution in Canada and the distinctive characteristic of civilized countries.
I thought it was culture, respect for young people, the right  to work, and that it was a finance minister who made the right decisions.
[English]

Mr. Telegdi:
Mr. Speaker, may I say that on Friday with a number of my colleagues I had the opportunity to look at the social programs in my riding.
Everyone who participated came up with very good suggestions about our social programs and how we have to reform them as we head into the next decade.
Everyone who came from the baby-boom generation would have some concern about old age pensions. We are going to have the biggest revolution when the baby boomers become senior citizens.
Demographically it is going to be like everything else.
When the boomers got to university, the university education system exploded.
Therefore, we have to plan for that.
I really regret that the Bloc Quebecois would not want to look at this to make sure that in the future we will have a pension system that is supportable, viable and will be there for people in need.
There has been absolutely no talk about cutting pensions.
In terms of sewers and infrastructure, even this Chamber has to have sewage service, probably more than most other places.
Any building, whether it is a university building or an industrial building has to have a sewage system and a water system.
Those systems are very important in protecting our environment as well.
The Deputy Speaker:
The debate is over at 6.23.
I wonder if the two members from the Reform Party want to cut into the time of their own members, two of whom are the next speakers.
Assuming not, the next speaker is the hon. member for Simcoe Centre.
Mr. Ed Harper (Simcoe Centre):
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak against the budget and in support of our motion to do something about the current deficit and debt that we face as a country.
I do not know if members have ever heard a million dollar speech, but I am about to give one.
Members may not agree it is worth that much, but the fact remains that by the time I conclude, with our current debt accumulating at $78,000 per minute, we will have slipped another million dollars into debt.
This is the ticking time bomb we are sitting on.
Mr. O'Reilly:
That is enough to make you lose your hair.
Mr. Harper (Simcoe Centre):
I cannot afford to do that.
I appreciate that this is a two part budget and nothing in the first part will correct the problem.
Given the track record on promises for the future on the second stage I have no optimism.
We have been living beyond our means for over 20 years and over that same period each budget would acknowledge how serious the problem was, yet we still overspent and the debt continued to grow.
In spite of this history of year after year of failed budgets we continue to go down the same road.
Apparently no one is asking the question:  ``What are we doing wrong? Why have our plans not worked''?
The problem to me is the fact that we place all of our emphasis on those things that we have little control over; interest payments and growth in the economy.
The one area where we do have complete control is spending and yet we ignore it in the hope that we can grow our way out with optimistic growth projections and pray that interest rates will remain low.
The government has a spending problem.
There is no other variable available that we can control.
If we are serious about eliminating our deficit and then reducing our debt we must attack spending.
Ano mistake about it, this is a war of Canada's survival.
I am not talking about nibbling around the edges like this budget.
I am talking about serious spending cuts, not next year or the year after but now.
From my background in small business I know how important the bottom line is.
If you want to stay in business and employ people you must make a profit or at least break even.
As a manager of that business if you fail to make a profit you fail the employees who lose their jobs.
The bottom line is profit for people.
Government is a business, not a business for profit but a break even business and the government is failing our people.
You cannot lose money year after year.
You can borrow to a point.
However, governments have gone far beyond the point of good business sense.
Our lenders do us no favours by allowing us to go deeper and deeper into an abyss of debt.
The pain and suffering that will come will not be any easier as we delay the inevitable as the budget does.
During the first few days of the 35th Parliament I heard the phrase ``lean but not mean'' many times.
In some ways those are meaningless words of comfort.
You cannot be lean but not mean.
You are speaking with a forked tongue.
To those who are going to be affected by your decisions to cut or reduce you are mean.
To the 16,000 military personnel in the defence cuts plus the thousands of jobs lost in the cancellation of the EH-101 contract without debating the merits of those decisions, you were mean.
Unfortunately due to excessive spending by former governments there is no painless way out of the current mess.
The budget has only delayed the day and continues to play a cruel hoax on Canadians by pretending there is an easy way out.
There is not.
We have 20 years of history to prove it.
It is ironic that on the first day of this Parliament the federal budget reached half a trillion dollars, a national disgrace for a country of 27 million people, a personal debt of $74,000 for each family of four living in the country, $18,000 of debt for every man, woman and child.
As shocking as these numbers are, the government is prepared to add almost $40 billion this year toward an additional $100 billion over the next three years to a total of $600 billion or $22,000 per person by 1996.
It is madness.
We cannot afford the programs we have and yet we are prepared to add more.
The 35th Parliament set three targets.
The first is the largest deficit in our history, the largest number of new members, and the largest debt ever.
What a great opportunity with so many new faces with fresh ideas to turn this place around and leave it in four years a better place than we found it, fiscally responsible and economically sound.
In 22 years of Liberal governments the debt soared from about $25 billion to $180 billion with an absolute freefall starting in 1975-1976.
After losing to the Conservatives in 1984 the debt plunged to a record $500 billion in 1993, almost triple in nine short years.
This in spite of the fact that each and every budget announced the intention of attacking the deficit and the debt.
Where is the credibility?
We have had 20 years of failed budgets, 20 years of broken promises, 20 years of tax increases, and 20 years of declining services.
Is there any wonder that Canadians have lost faith in their politicians?
There is a frightening similarity between overfishing and overspending.
For years we were warned that our fish stocks were in danger and that continued fishing at current rates would deplete our them, costing thousands of jobs.
We ignored that advice at our peril.
We have the same scenario today in out of control government spending.
We have been warned it cannot continue yet we ignore the warnings.
With our situation deteriorating by the minute as it has done for the past 20 years no one is asking why.
What are we doing wrong?
How do we stop this addiction to spending?
Like drugs or alcohol in many ways it is an addiction.
Like an addiction the first step toward a cure is acknowledgement that we have a problem.
This budget fails that test.
Much worse, it says very clearly that our finance minister does not understand.
Unless we face and solve these problems now nothing else matters, not health care, not education and not our ability to compete.
The headline on the cover of this week's Maclean's magazine asks the question:
``Are we cheating our kids?''

While the story deals with education, the same question applies to this generation's overspending and the terrible debt load we are leaving their young shoulders.
The reason I am here today is my deep concern for my children and my grandchildren.
I am ashamed of my part in this spending binge that has mortgaged their future.
Sitting back was not good enough. I had to get involved and do what I could to save their future, and in saving their future we would be saving Canada from the terrible prospects of bankruptcy.
Some politicians will say that deficit and debt are a problem but not to worry.
Those politicians are burying their heads in the sand.
We have been told for 20 years that things are going to get better, yet our situation has never been worse.
In the next three years we will add $100 billion more debt and we will still be overspending by $25 billion.
For 20 years I ran a small business in Barrie providing employment for some 20 people.
Each month and each year I worried that we would maintain a profit or at least break even so I could protect their jobs and mine.
It is no different from any other business, large or small. It is no different than the taxpayers across this great country making ends meet, living within their means.
Why is it that governments think they can do otherwise?
A big part of the answer is the fact that governments have been able to come back to us for more taxes, never cutting spending, just increasing taxes.
The day of tax increases being productive is over.
My constituents told me very clearly they have no more to give.
Any further attempts at a tax grab would ignite a tax revolt.
Many of our citizens have expressed their disgust in past increases and broken promises by joining the underground economy which is costing honest taxpayers billions of dollars.
As part of our zero in three plan we outlined a savings of $500 million in subsidies to special interest groups that have been living off all taxpayers when they should have been getting funding from those they supposedly represent.
We are doing a further study on this issue.
Governments do not create jobs.
The private sector does.
The $6 billion infrastructure program outlined in the budget to kick start our economy was described by Sir Roger Douglas, former finance minister of New Zealand, as taking a feather duster to the Eiffel Tower.
Those few jobs will disappear after the funding runs out and we will be a further $6 billion in debt.
The private sector will create the long term jobs our children and grandchildren need.
The private sector is not looking for government handouts.
It is looking for governments to get off of its back and out of its pockets and out of the pockets of its customers.
The reduction in UI premiums is a step in the right direction and I applaud the government for that.
In closing, let me say that all of the problems we face are pale by comparison.
If we fail to attack this overspending, this mortgaging our children's future, we will fail Canada.
We are facing a battle that is greater than any our country has faced before.
Working together we can make the tough decisions to bring back fiscal responsibility.
This budget is not the answer.
We cannot delay.
We can pay now or we can pay much more dearly later.
[Mr. Sarkis Assadourian (Don Valley North):
Mr. speaker, the speech was not worth a million dollars to me.
He asked for $1 million.
On this motion paragraph (a) asks for a cut in the budget for the youth service corps, the court challenges program, the residential rehabilitation assistance plan, the engineering plan program and infrastructure.
That is one paragraph.
Paragraph (c) says that we should spend money to produce quarterly reports.
We are going to spend money to produce reports but we will not spend money to create jobs.
How does one explain this in the motion?
Mr. Harper (Simcoe Centre):
Mr. Speaker, item (c) where we are asking that money be spent on quarterly reports on our progress ties in very nicely with a recommendation that was made in the Auditor General's report.
One problem we have faced over the years is that the Canadian public is not being kept aware of the magnitude of this program and our progress or lack of progress in solving it.
Our reference to that is for information, to keep this Parliament and all Canadians aware of the progress that we are making toward attacking the deficit and the debt.
I do not think that is wasted money.
It is money well spent.
We will be keeping in touch with our progress in addressing this most serious concern that we face and indeed that all Canadians are going to be affected by.
Mr. Elwin Hermanson (Kindersley--Lloydminster):
Mr. Speaker, I realize the time is short and I will not be able to give the entire load that I intended to deliver to the House on this occasion in speaking in support of our motion put forward by my colleague, the hon. member for Lethbridge.
I had intended to relate to this House the effect that I felt the federal government's budget would have on the agricultural industry.
Perhaps when another day provides the opportunity I will be able to give this presentation in a little bit more detail.
I would like to make a few points in the short time that I have available, especially in light of the fact that the Minister of Agriculture is in the House.
It would have been a great pleasure and a privilege to discuss agriculture at quite some length because agriculture has been an issue that has strangely been on the back burner. It has received very little attention in the House from the government side.
I know that my constituents in Kindersley--Lloydminster and Canadians in rural areas are quite concerned that the government does not have a handle on federal spending.
Federal agriculture programs are not only in jeopardy but our very standard of living is in jeopardy and will affect all communities in this country as well as agriculture.
By not taking the necessary steps to deal with the deficit now the government is sacrificing the future of government services to all Canadians, including people in the agricultural field.
Rather than taking these essential steps the government has decided to create more spending programs.
We would encourage the government to place a moratorium on new spending, including the new spending requirements announced in the budget namely, and we have talked about them today, the youth service corps, the court challenges program and the engineer's program but particularly the infrastructure program.
I was quite saddened to hear comments made by the Minister of Public Works mocking Reform's position that Canadians are not as excited about the infrastructure program as the government would have us believe.
The minister challenged members on this side of the House to have their constituencies refuse infrastructure funding.
It seemed like a very unfair request to make in that constituents who are represented by Reform MPs are being raped and pillaged by high taxes and then are expected to give up the morsels that the government would offer by way of inadequate infrastructure programs.
More seriously, what is really the heart of the matter is that instead of having a few new programs, what is really going to happen is that we are not going to have security for the programs that Canadians rely upon including federal support for health care for those seniors that the government side seems to be so concerned about, if they have a few programs that have nice frills around the edges.
However we lose the core of our health care program. What good are these programs?
If we have a youth corps program but we do not have quality education for our young people in this country, of what value is a youth corps program?
Finally, if our seniors lose their old age security pensions and low income assistance, of what value are some of these frills that the government would put forward in the way of new programs?
Reformers have been talking about priorities.
We have been talking about what is really important to keep this great country of ours together with a high standard of living that we can all be proud of.
Whether we are people in the private sector who are small business people, farmers, whether we are seniors who have committed a great deal of effort and energy into making this a great country, or whether we are the youth of this country who would like to think they have a bright future where they can contribute to a great land and to a society that they can make better, I and many Canadians are concerned that this will not be the case in light of the fact that the government has not been able to control its spending.
In fact, this debt may be a ticking time bomb that will explode on future generations and deny them the standard of living and the lifestyle that we have enjoyed as Canadians who have lived beyond our means.
They will not have that same opportunity.
Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the short time you have allowed me to speak.
As I mentioned, perhaps I will be able to unload the entire load at some future occasion.

[Translation]
The Deputy Speaker:
It being 6.23 p.m., in accordance with the  provisions of Standing Order 81(16), it is my duty to interrupt the proceedings and put forthwith every question necessary to dispose of the business of supply.
Is the House ready for the question?
Some hon. members:
Question!
The Deputy Speaker:
Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the  said motion?
Some hon. members:
Agreed.
Some hon. members:
No.
The Deputy Speaker:
All those in favour will please say yea.
Some hon. members:
Yea.
The Deputy Speaker:
All those opposed will please say nay.
Some hon. members:
Nay.
The Deputy Speaker:
In my opinion the nays have it.
And more than five members having risen:
The Deputy Speaker:
Call in the members.
And the division bells having rung:
The Deputy Speaker:
Pursuant to Standing Order 45(5)(a), I have  been asked by the Government Whip to defer the division until a later time.
[English]

Division on Motion deferred
Accordingly, pursuant to Standing Order 45(5)(a), the division on the question now before the House stands deferred until tomorrow at 6.30 p.m. at which time the bells to call in the members will be sounded for not more than 15 minutes.
Colleagues, it being 6.25 p.m. the House stands adjourned until tomorrow at 10 a.m. pursuant to Standing Order 24(1).
The House adjourned at 6.25 p.m.
241st REPORT
Paragraphs
Pages
Introduction
	   1-23
1-7
Cases not calling for further examination
	  24-48
8-14
Case No. 1305 (Costa Rica):
Complaint presented 	  by the National Association of Public Employees 	  against the Government of Costa Rica
	  24-36
8-11
The Committee's conclusions
	  33-35
10-11
The Committee's recommendation
	    36
11

Case No. 1336 (Mauritius):
Complaint presented by 	  the Federation of Progressive Unions against the 	  Government of Mauritius
	  37-48
11-14
The Committee's conclusions
	  45-47
13-14
The Committee's recommendation
	    48
14
Paragraphs	Pages
Cases in which the Committee has reached definitive conclusions
	 49-386
14-174
Case No. 1040 (Central African Republic):
Complaints submitted by the International 	  Confederation of Free Trade Unions and the 	  General Union of Central African Workers against 	  the Government of the Central African Republic
.. 49-84
14-22
The Committee's conclusions
	 76-83
20-22
The Committee's recommendations
	   84
22
Cases Nos. 1098, 1132, 1254, 1257, 1290, 1299 	  and 1316 (Uruguay):
Complaints presented by 	  several trade union organisations against the 	  Government of Uruguay
	 85-96
23-26
The Committee's conclusions
	 94-95
25
The Committee's recommendations
	   96
26
Cases Nos. 1172, 1234, 1247 and 1260 (Canada):
Complaints presented by the Canadian Labour 	  Congress, the World Confederation of 	  Organisations of the Teaching Profession and the 	  Service Employees International Union against 	  the Government of Canada (Ontario), by the 	  Canadian Labour Congress on behalf of the Alberta 	  Union of Provincial Employees against the 	  Government of Canada (Alberta), by the 	  Confederation of Alberta Faculty Associations 	  against the Government of Canada (Alberta) and by 	  the Canadian Labour Congress on behalf of the 	  Newfoundland Association of Public Employees 	  against the Government of Canada (Newfoundland) .
97-155
26-90
The Committee's conclusions on Case 	    No. 1172/Ontario
	109-121
29-31
The Committee's recommendations
	  122
31
The Committee's conclusions on Case 	    No. 1234/Alberta
	123-127
32-33
Recommendations of the Committee
	  128
34
The Committee's conclusions on Case 	    No. 1247/Alberta
	129-139
34-38
The Committee's recommendations
	  140
38
ii	8313n Paragraphs	Pages
The Committee's conclusions on Case 	    No. 1260/Newfoundland
	141-154
39-42
The Committee's recommendations
	  155
42
Annex
		   43
Case No. 1285 (Chile):
Complaint presented by the 	  National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body against 	  the Government of Chile
	156-215
115-130
The Committee's conclusions
	169-170
118
176
120
183-184
122
190-192
124
202-204
126-127
211-213
129
The Committee's recommendations
	  215
130

Case No. 1287 (Costa Rica):
Complaint presented by 	  the National Federation of Electrical and Postal 	  Communications Employees against the Government 	  of Costa Rica
	216-229
131-135
Conclusions of the Committee
	224-228
133-135
Recommendations of the Committee
	  229
135
Case No. 1310 (Costa Rica):
Complaint submitted by 	  the World Confederation of Organisations of the 	  Teaching Profession against the Government of 	  Costa Rica
	230-248
135-139
The Committee's conclusions
	243-247
138-139
The Committee's recommendations
	  248
139
Case No. 1291 (Colombia):
Complaint submitted by 	  the Trade Union Confederation of Colombian 	  Workers (CSTC) against the Government of Colombia
249-262
140-143
The Committee's conclusions
	259-261
142
The Committee's recommendations
	  262
143
Case No. 1293 (Dominican Republic):
Complaints 	  presented by the Unified Workers' Confederation 	  and the General Confederation of Workers against 	  the Government of the Dominican Republic
	263-274
143-146
The Committee's conclusions
	272-273
145
8313n	iii Paragraphs	Pages
The Committee's recommendations
	  274
146
Case No. 1306 (Mauritania):
Complaint submitted by 	  the International Confederation of Arab Trade 	  Unions against the Government of Mauritania
	275-291
146-148

The Committee's conclusions
	285-290
148
The Committee's recommendations
	  291
148
Case No. 1317 (Nicaragua):
Complaint presented by 	  the International Organisation of Employers 	  against the Government of Nicaragua
	292-311
149-153
The Committee's conclusions
	304-310
152-153
The Committee's recommendations
	  311
153
Case No. 1318 (Federal Republic of Germany):
Complaint presented by the German Workers' 	  Confederation against the Government of the 	  Federal Republic of Germany
	312-340
154-161
The Committee's conclusions
	333-339
159-160
The Committee's recommendations
	  340
161
Case No. 1323 (Philippines):
Complaints presented 	  by the International Confederation of Free Trade 	  Unions, the Trade Unions of the Philippines and 	  Allied Services and the Kilusang Mayo Uno against 	  the Government of the Philippines
	341-374
161-170
The Committee's conclusions
	367-373
168-170
The Committee's recommendations
	  374
170
Case No. 1324 (Australia/Northern Territory):
Complaints presented by the World Confederation 	  of Organisations of the Teaching Profession, the 	  Administrative and Clerical Officers' 	  Association, AGE, the Australian Council of 	  Trade Unions and the Australian Public Service 	  Association (4th Division Officers) against the 	  Government of Australia/Northern Territory
	375-386
171-174
The Committee's conclusions
	384-385
174
The Committee's recommendations
	  386
174
iv	8313n Paragraphs	Pages
Cases in which the Committee requests to be kept informed of developments
	387-421
175-183
Case No. 1189 (Kenya):
Complaints presented by the 	  Public Services International and the 	  Organisation of African Trade Union Unity against 	  the Government of Kenya
	387-395
175-177
The conclusions of the Committee
	391-394
176-177
The Committee's recommendations
	  395
177
Cases Nos. 1277 and 1288 (Dominican Republic):
Complaints presented by several regional and 	  international trade union organisations, namely: 	  the Inter-American Regional Organisation of 	  Workers, the Latin American Confederation of 	  Workers, the Permanent Congress of Trade Union 	  Unity of Latin American Workers, the World 	  Federation of Trade Unions, the International 	  Confederation of Free Trade Unions, the World 	  Confederation of Labour and by several Dominican 	  Trade Union Organisations, namely:  the General 	  Workers' Federation, the National Confederation 	  of Dominican Workers, the General Union of 	  Dominican Workers, the Unified Workers Central 	  and the Workers' Trade Union Autonomous 	  Federation against the Government of the 	  Dominican Republic
	396-406
178-180

The Committee's conclusions
	404-405
180
The Committee's recommendations
	  406
180
Case No. 1282 (Morocco):
Complaint presented by 	  the Local Federation of Trade Unions of 	  Casablanca (Moroccan Federation of Labour) 	  against the Government of Morocco
	407-421
181-183
The Committee's conclusions
	415-420
182-183
The Committee's recommendations
	  421
183
Cases in which the Committee has reached interim 	 conclusions
	422-856
184-323
Case No. 1054 (Morocco):
Complaints by the Inter- 	  national Confederation of Free Trade Unions, 	  the World Confederation of Labour, the World 	  Federation of Trade Unions, the Democratic 	  Confederation of Labour and other trade union 	  organisations against the Government of Morocco .
422-439
184-186
8313n	v Paragraphs	Pages
The Committee's conclusions
	431-438
185-186
The Committee's recommendations
	  439
186
Cases Nos. 1129, 1169, 1185 and 1298 (Nicaragua):
Complaints presented by a number of international 	  and national trade union organisations against 	  the Government of Nicaragua
	440-494
187-197
The Committee's conclusions
	480-493
195-197
The Committee's recommendations
	  494
197
Cases Nos. 1176, 1195, 1215 and 1262 (Guatemala):
Complaints presented by the Permanent Congress of 	  Trade Union Unity of Latin American Workers, the 	  Autonomous Trade Union Federation of Guatemala, 	  the International Confederation of Free Trade 	  Unions, the World Federation of Trade Unions and 	  the National Committee of Trade Union Unity 	  against the Government of Guatemala
	495-521
199-205
The Committee's conclusions
	514-520
204-205
The Committee's recommendations
	  521
205

Cases Nos. 1204, 1275, 1301, 1328 and 1341 	  (Paraguay):
Complaints against the Government 	  of Paraguay presented by the International 	  Confederation of Free Trade Unions, the Latin 	  American Central of Workers and the International 	  Federation of Plantation, Agricultural and Allied 	  Workers
	522-550
210-217
General conclusions
	  532
212
Conclusions on Case No. 1204
	533-536
212-213
Conclusions on Case No. 1275
	537-538
213
Conclusions on Case No. 1301
	539-542
214-215
Conclusions on Case No. 1328
	543-547
215-216
Conclusions on Case No. 1341
	548-549
216
The Committee's recommendations
	  550
217
Annex
		  218
Case No. 1219 (Liberia):
Complaint presented by 	  the National Agriculture and Allied Workers' 	  Union against the Government of Liberia
	551-563
236-240
The conclusions of the Committee
	558-562
238-239
The Committee's recommendations
	  563
240
vi	8313n
Paragraphs
Pages
Case No. 1250 (Belgium):
Complaint presented by 	  the National Federation of Independent Trade 	  Unions against the Government of Belgium
	564-648
241-264
The Committee's conclusions
	619-647
257-264
The Committee's recommendations
	  648
264
Case No. 1266 (Burkina Faso):
Complaint presented 	  by the National Union of African Teachers of 	  Upper Volta and the World Confederation of 	  Organisations of the Teaching Profession against 	  the Government of Burkina Faso
	649-687
265-274
The Committee's conclusions
	674-686
272-274
The Committee's recommendations
	  687
274
Case No. 1270 (Brazil):
Complaint presented by 	  the Jaoa Monlevade Metalworkers' Union, the 	  Unitarian Workers' Federation and the World 	  Confederation of Labour against the Government 	  of Brazil
	688-707
275-279
The Committee's conclusions
	702-706
278-279
The Committee's recommendations
	  707
279
Case No. 1294 (Brazil):
Complaint presented by the 	  National Confederation of Agricultural Workers 	  against the Government of Brazil
	708-740
280-286
The Committee's conclusions
	733-739
284-285
The Committee's recommendations
	  740
286
Case No. 1307 (Honduras):
Complaint presented by 	  the World Federation of Trade Unions against the 	  Government of Honduras
	741-749
286-288

The Committee's conclusions
	747-748
288
The Committee's recommendations
	  749
288
Case No. 1309 (Chile):
Complaints presented by the 	  International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, 	  the World Confederation of Labour, the World 	  Federation of Trade Unions and other trade union 	  organisations against the Government of Chile
... 750-805
289-302
The Committee's conclusions
	795-804
299-302
The Committee's recommendations
	  805
302

8313n	vii Paragraphs	Pages
Case No. 1326 (Bangladesh):
Complaints presented 	  by the World Federation of Teachers' Unions and 	  the Sramik Karmachari Okkya Parishad against the 	  Government of Bangladesh
	806-821
308-312
The Committee's conclusions
	814-820
309-312
The Committee's recommendations
	  821
312
Case No. 1330 (Guyana):
Complaint presented by the 	  National Association of Agricultural, Commercial 	  and Industrial Employees and five other trade 	  unions against the Government of Guyana
	822-845
313-319
The conclusions of the Committee
	839-844
318-319
The Committee's recommendations
	  845
319
Case No. 1333 (Jordan):
Complaint presented by the 	  World Federation of Trade Unions against the 	  Government of Jordan
	846-856
320-323
The Committee's conclusions
	853-855
322
The Committee's recommendations
	  856
323

242nd REPORT
Paragraphs
Pages
Introduction
	  1-4
324
Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029 (Turkey):
Complaints 	presented by the World Confederation of Labour, 	the World Federation of Trade Unions, the 	International Confederation of Free Trade Unions 	and several other trade union organisations against the Government of Turkey

Representation submitted by the General Confederation of Norwegian Trade Unions under article 24 of the Constitution, concerning non-observance of the Right of Association (Agriculture) Convention, 1921 (No. 11), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) by Turkey
	  5-38
324-333
The conclusions of the Committee
	 26-37
330-333
The Committee's recommendations
	   38
333
viii	8313n
Earlier reports of the Committee on Freedom of Association have been published as follows:
Report
Publication
Reports of the International Labour Organisation 	to the United Nations (Geneva, ILO)
1-3
Sixth Report (1952), Appendix V
4-6
Seventh Report (1953), Appendix V
7-12
Eighth Report (1954), Appendix II
Official Bulletin
Volume
Year
Number
13-14
XXXVII
1954
4
15-16
XXXVIII
1955
1
17-18
XXXIX
1956
1
19-24
XXXIX
1956
4
25-26
XL
1957
2
27-28
XLI
1958
3
29-45
XLIII
1960
3
46-57
XLIV
1961
3
58
XLV
1962
1 S
59-60
XLV
1962
2 SI
61-65
XLV
1962
3 SII
66
XLVI
1963
1 S
67-68
XLVI
1963
2 SI
69-71
XLVI
1963
3 SII
72
XLVII
1964
1 S
73-77
XLVII
1964
3 SII
78
XLVIII
1965
1 S
79-81
XLVIII
1965
2 S
82-84
XLVIII
1965
3 SII
85
XLIX
1966
1 S
86-88
XLIX
1966
2 S
89-92	XLIX	1966	 3 SII 93	L	1967	 1 S 94-95	L	1967	 2 S
The letter S, followed as appropriate by a roman numeral, indicates a supplement.
For communications relating to the 23rd and 27th Reports see Official Bulletin , Vol. XLIII, 1960, No. 3.
8313n	ix
Report
Publication
Volume
Year
Number

96-100
L
1967
3 SII
101
LI
1968
1 S
102-103
LI
1968
2 S
104-106
LI
1968
4 S
107-108
LII
1969
1 S
109-110
LII
1969
2 S
111-112
LII
1969
4 S
113-116
LIII
1970
2 S
117-119
LIII
1970
4 S
120-122
LIV
1971
2 S
123-125
LIV
1971
4 S
126-133
LV
1972
S
134-138
LVI
1973
S 139-145
LVII
1974
S
146-148
LVIII
1975
Series B, Nos. 1-2
149-152
LVIII
1975
Series B, No. 3
153-155
LIX
1976
Series B, No. 1
156-157
LIX
1976
Series B, No. 2
158-159
LIX
1976
Series B, No. 3
160-163
LX
1977
Series B, No. 1
164-167
LX
1977
Series B, No. 2
168-171
LX
1977
Series B, No. 3
172-176
LXI
1978
Series B, No. 1
177-186
LXI
1978
Series B, No. 2
187-189
LXI
1978
Series B, No. 3
190-193
LXII
1979
Series B, No. 1
194-196
LXII
1979
Series B, No. 2
197-198
LXII
1979
Series B, No. 3
199-201
LXIII
1980
Series B, No. 1
202-203
LXIII
1980
Series B, No. 2
204-206
LXIII
1980
Series B, No. 3
207
LXIV
1981
Series B, No. 1
208-210
LXIV
1981
Series B, No. 2
211-213
LXIV
1981
Series B, No. 3
214-216
LXV
1982
Series B, No. 1 217
LXV
1982
Series B, No. 2
218-221
LXV
1982
Series B, No. 3
222-225
LXVI
1983
Series B, No. 1
226-229
LXVI
1983
Series B, No. 2
230-232
LXVI
1983
Series B, No. 3
233
LXVII
1984
Series B, No. 1
234-235
LXVII
1984
Series B, No. 2
236-237
LXVII
1984
Series B, No. 3

238
LXVIII
1985
Series B, No. 1
239-240
LXVIII
1985
Series B, No. 2
x	8313n
241st REPORT
INTRODUCTION
1.
The Committee on Freedom of Association, set up by the Governing Body at its 117th Session (November 1951), met at the International Labour Office, Geneva, on 1, 2, 4 and 7 November 1985 under the chairmanship of Mr. Roberto Ago, former Chairman of the Governing Body.
2.
The members of the Committee of Australian and New Zealand nationality were not present during the examination of the cases relating to Australia/NT (Case No. 1324) and New Zealand (Case No. 1334), respectively.
* *   * 3. The Committee is currently seized of 101 cases [this figure includes the cases relating to Turkey (Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029) which are examined in the 242nd Report] in which the complaints have been submitted to the governments concerned for observations. At its present meeting it examined 55 cases in substance, reaching The 241st and 242nd Reports were examined and approved by the Governing Body at its 231st Session (November 1985). These include the cases relating to Turkey (Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029) which are examined in the 242nd Report. definitive conclusions in 32 cases and interim conclusions in 23 cases;
the remaining cases were adjourned for various reasons set out in the following paragraphs.
* *   * 4. New cases :
The Committee adjourned until its next meeting the cases relating to the Dominican Republic (Case No. 1339), Morocco (Case No. 1340), Spain (Case No. 1342), Nicaragua (Case No. 1344), Australia (Case No. 1345), India (Case No. 1346), Ecuador (Case No. 1348), Malta (Case No. 1349), Canada/British Columbia (Case No. 1350), Nicaragua (Case No. 1351) and Israel (Case No. 1352), concerning which it is still awaiting information or observations from the governments concerned.
All these cases concern complaints brought since the last meeting of the Committee.
5. Adjournments :
The Committee awaits observations and information concerning the cases relating to Argentina (Case No. 1220), Peru (Case No. 1321), Canada/British Columbia (Case No. 1329), Brazil (Case No. 1331), Pakistan (Case No. 1332) and Nepal (Case No. 1337).
The Committee again adjourned these cases and requests the governments concerned to transmit their observations.
6.
As regards the cases relating to USA (Case No. 1130), Costa Rica (Case No. 1304), Spain (Case No. 1320), the Dominican Republic (Case No. 1322), Tunisia (Case No. 1327), Malta (Case No. 1335), Denmark (Case No. 1338), Colombia (Case No. 1343) and Bolivia (Case No. 1347), the Committee has received the governments' observations only recently or in circumstances which did not allow it to examine them in substance.
It intends to examine these cases in substance at its next meeting.
7.
As regards the case concerning New Zealand (Case No. 1334), involving a complaint submitted by the New Zealand Employers' Federation, the Committee took note of a communication containing comments on the case by the New Zealand Federation of Labour.
The Committee considered that, in accordance with its usual procedure, it could only take account, in its examination of the case, of communications transmitted by the complainant organisation and of those submitted by, or through, the government concerned.
It accordingly decided to inform the New Zealand Federation of Labour that its comments can only be taken into account if they are transmitted by, or through, the Government.
Since the Government's reply to the complaint has already been received, the Committee decided to examine this case at its next meeting.
URGENT APPEALS
8.
The Committee observes that, in spite of the time which has elapsed since the last examination of the following cases and the seriousness of the allegations in some of them, the observations or information requested of the governments concerned have not been received:  Cases Nos. 1190 and 1199 (Peru), 1296 (Antigua and Barbuda), 1300 (Costa Rica), 1308 (Grenada), 1311 (Guatemala), 1313 (Brazil) and 1325 (Sudan).
The Committee draws the attention of the governments concerned to the fact that, in conformity with the procedural rules set out in paragraph 17 of the Committee's 127th Report, approved by the Governing Body, it may present a report at its next meeting on the substance of these cases even if the governments' observations have not been received in time for that meeting.
The Committee accordingly requests the governments concerned to transmit their observations or information as a matter of urgency.
* *   * 9.
The Committee draws the legislative aspects of the following cases to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations: Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029 (Turkey); 1040 (Central African Republic);  1098, 1132, 1254, 1257, 1290, 1299 and 1316 (Uruguay); 1266 (Burkina Faso);  1291 (Colombia);  1293 (Dominican Republic);  1323 (Philippines);  1330 (Guyana).
Direct contacts
10.
As regards the cases relating to El Salvador (Cases Nos. 953, 973, 1150, 1168, 1233, 1258, 1269, 1273 and 1281), the Committee at its May 1985 meeting noted that, following an official visit by the Director-General to the country, the Government was willing to accept a direct contacts mission with a view to examining the various aspects of these cases.
Not having received confirmation from the Government to enable this mission to take place, the Committee urges the Government to reply as rapidly as possible so that the Committee will have before it, at its February 1986 meeting, information obtained on the spot on these cases.
11.
As regards the cases relating to Honduras (Cases Nos. 1216 and 1271), a Government representative during the 71st Session of the Interntional Labour Conference (June 1985) agreed that a direct contacts mission take place with a view to overcoming the divergences existing between Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 and Honduran legislation, as well as to obtain information on, and to discuss, the above cases.
Since the Committee has not received confirmation from the Government to enable this mission to take place, it urges the Government of Honduras to reply as rapidly as possible so that the Committee will have before it, at its February 1986 meeting, information obtained on the spot concerning these cases.
Effect given to the recommendations of the Committee and of the Governing Body
12.
As regards Case No. 1074 (USA), examined by the Committee at its November 1981 meeting, information was requested from the Government on the results of the pending appeals lodged by dismissed air traffic controllers.
In a communication dated 23 August 1985, the Government states that, as at 1 August 1985, the Full Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) has sustained the dismissal in 4,659 cases and ordered reinstatement in 94 cases;
in 70 cases the appeal was withdrawn and the remaining 239 appeals before that instance are pending.
At the US Court of Appeals level, despite a decision in favour of the employer in ten lead cases, 2,690 controllers renewed their appeals, 289 of which were subsequently withdrawn voluntarily by the appellants and 27 of which were dismissed by the Court.
In 104 of these appeals, the Court has reaffirmed the dismissal.
Thus, 2,270 of those cases are still pending.
As this is the sixth communication from the Government concerning the status of the appeals, the Committee observes that it would now appear from all the information submitted that, of the 11,065 dismissed controllers who initially lodged appeals, a total of 444 reinstatements have been ordered.
The Committee notes the information supplied by the Government and requests it to continue to inform it of the outcome of the pending appeals.
13.
As regards Case No. 1100 (India), the Committee had requested the Government to keep it informed of the outcome of the case pending before the Supreme Court concerning the amendments introduced to the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act which allegedly modify the conditions of service of the employees in the insurance sector without the consent of the unions concerned.
In a communication of 9 July 1985, the Government states that the Supreme Court quashed the scheme of 1980 and left the option of amendment of the Act to the Government.
The President of India promulgated, on 17 September 1984, an ordinance amending the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972.
This ordinance was challenged in the Supreme Court by the employees of the General Insurance Corporation.
In the meantime, the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill was introduced and passed by both Houses of Parliament.
This Act has also been challenged in the Supreme Court.
The matter is, therefore, sub judice .
The Committee takes note of this information and that the Government will communicate further developments regarding this case.
14.
As regards the case concerning Chile (Case No. 1191), the Government states in a communication dated 14 August 1985 that the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court granted the appeal lodged in this case and overturned the decision to stay proceedings which had been handed down by the Military Court and the courts martial in complaints relating to allegations of torture and ill-treatment of trade union leaders.
The Committee takes note of this information and requests the Government to keep it informed of developments in this matter.
15.
As regards the case concerning Peru (Case No. 1228), the Committee had requested the Government to carry out an investigation into the alleged confiscation of mail addressed abroad by the Union of Peruvian Educational Workers and to inform it of the outcome of this inquiry.
In a communication dated 15 July 1985, the Government states that, since 1980 when the democratic regime was instituted, all forms of control of mail have been eliminated;
thus there is not, nor could there be, any supposed confiscation of mail in any circumstances.
The Committee takes note of this reply.
16.
As regards Case No. 1241 (Australia), examined by the Committee at its May 1984 meeting, information was requested from the Government on any measures taken to grant facilities to the Northern Territory Public Service Association, such as access to its members and distribution of trade union literature at the workplace.
In a communication dated 20 August 1985, the Government states that, on 8 October 1984, the Northern Territory Public Service Commissioner circulated an instruction to all Departmental Heads and Prescribed Authorities indicating that the union in question be granted the same rights of access to its members and the use of notice boards as is accorded other registered unions.
The Committee takes note of this information with interest.
17.
As regards the case concerning Chile (Case No. 1297) which the Committee examined at its May 1985 meeting, it regretted that the Government had not supplied more detailed information on the persons who, according to the complainants, had been exiled for their trade union functions or activities and informed both the Government and the complainants that it would appreciate receiving any additional information available in this respect.
In a communication dated 12 August 1985, the Government states that for humanitarian reasons it has authorised the return to the country of Héctor Cuevas Salvador.
The Committee takes note of this information with interest and urges the Government to continue to keep it informed of any similar measure taken in favour of those persons still in exile.
18.
Lastly, as regards Sri Lanka (Cases Nos. 988/1003), Morocco (Case No. 1077), Pakistan (Case No. 1175), India (Case No. 1227) and the United Kingdom (Case No. 1261), the Committee again requests the governments concerned to keep it informed of developments in these cases.
The Committee hopes that these governments will communicate this information at an early date.
* *   * 19.
In addition, the Committee notes with concern that, despite the time which has elapsed since the Governing Body requested certain governments to keep it informed of measures taken to give effect to its recommendations, these governments' replies have not been received.
In this respect, the Committee would point out that, in accordance with the procedural rules set out in paragraphs 27 and 28 of its 127th Report, approved by the Governing Body, if there is no reply or if the reply given is partly or entirely unsatisfactory, the matter should be followed up periodically through invitations to the Director-General at suitable intervals, according to the nature of each case, to remind the government concerned of the matter and to request it to supply information as to the action taken on the recommendations approved by the Governing Body.
The Committee itself will, from time to time, report on the situation.
20.
In these circumstances, the Committee recalls those requests made some time ago and which remain without response.
At its November 1984 meeting, the Committee invited the Government of Ecuador (Case No. 1230) to inform it of the outcome of the trial before the Second Criminal Court of Chimborazo concerning the circumstances surrounding the death, on 17 June 1983, of two Culluctuc trade unionists, Mr. Pedro Cuji and Mrs. Felipa Pucha, and the wounding of three peasants who were members of the Culluctuc Indigenous Community.
At its November 1984 meeting, it also requested the Government of Barbados (Case No. 1264) to keep it informed of the outcome of the measures taken by the Chief Labour Officer towards recognition of the National Union of Public Workers for the purposes of collective bargaining.
Lastly, at its May 1984 meeting, the Committee expressed its serious concern in the case of Honduras (Case No. 1268) at the lack of information on the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the trade union leader, Rolando Vindel González, and requested the Government to keep it informed of the outcome of the court inquiries underway.
Not having received the replies and information requested from the governments on these various points, the Committee invites the Director-General to bring these matters to the attention of the governments concerned and request them to send their replies urgently so as to enable the Committee, at its next meeting, to make a further assessment of the situation in each case.
* *   * 21.
With regard to Cases Nos. 1135 (Ghana), 1146 (Iraq) and 1237 (Brazil), the Committee regrets that, despite repeated appeals, the respective governments have not replied to the Committee's requests to be kept informed of developments in the various cases.
The Committee wishes to recall that:
In Case No. 1135 (Ghana) , it had requested the Government to inform it of any measures which might be taken to terminate the freeze on the bank accounts of the trade unionists who were in exile.
In this respect the Committee repeats its conclusion that, if, following investigation, no evidence is found to prove any misappropriation of trade union funds, it would be unreasonable to continue the freeze of the unionists' accounts whether they are in the country or not;
In Case No. 1146 (Iraq) , the Committee requested the Government to send it the text of the judgement sentencing to death the leaders of the General Federation of Trade Unions in Iraq, Messrs. Mohamed Ayesh and Baden Fadel, who, according to the Government, had ceased to be union leaders well before being tried and sentenced to death for espionage and conspiracy against the security of the State.
The Committee once again expresses its regret that the Government has not transmitted the text of the judgement handed down in this matter;
In Case No. 1237 (Brazil) , the Committee requested the Government to communicate a copy of the judgements, together with the reasons adduced therefor, handed down against those responsible for the death of the trade union leader, Margarita Maria Alves, in August 1983.
In this respect the Committee would once again recall that trade union rights can only be exercised in a climate that is free from violence, pressure or threats of any kind against trade unionists, and that it is for governments to ensure that this principle is respected.
22.
The Committee expresses the firm hope that in all these cases the governments concerned will take the necessary measures to give full effect to the recommendations of the Committee and the Governing Body.
IRRECEIVABLE COMPLAINT
23.
By a communication dated 28 June 1985 the Staff Union of the European Patent Organisation presented a complaint of alleged violation of trade union rights against that organisation.
By virtue of the procedure in force, the Committee can only examine complaints presented against States.
The Committee, accordingly, recommends the Governing Body to decide that the complaint in question is irreceivable.
CASES NOT CALLING FOR FURTHER EXAMINATION
Case No. 1305
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA
24.
The Committee examined this case at its May 1985 Session and submitted an interim report to the Governing Body [see 239th Report of the Committee, paras. 276-297, approved by the Governing Body at its 230th Session (May-June 1985)].
25.
Costa Rica has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
26.
In this case the complainant organisation had alleged that, as a result of an appeal lodged with the administrative authorities on 30 August 1984 by one of the candidates not elected to the new national executive committee of the National Association of Public Employees (ANEP), the Ministry of Labour and Social Security took measures which resulted in the suspension of the registration of the election results until a decision had been taken on the objection, the freezing of the ANEP's bank accounts and retention of the check-off funds amounting to administrative suspension of the ANEP.
27.
The Government stated that its decision to investigate the validity of the elections was legally based on the Ministry of Labour's obligation to ensure that the unions operated in conformity with the provisions of the Labour Code concerning democratic voting procedures.
The Government also stated that the decision to carry out an investigation arose out of a complaint by a candidate in the elections that there had been irregularities in the election procedures which justified their annulment.
28.
The Committee formulated, in particular, the following recommendations [see 239th Report, para. 297]:
The Committee draws the Government's attention to the principle that in cases where the results of trade union elections are challenged such questions should be referred to the judicial authorities in order to guarantee an impartial and objective procedure which should also be expeditious.
The Committee requests the Government to supply full and detailed information on the results of the inquiries that have been undertaken and to indicate whether any procedure exists for application to the courts concerning any administrative decision that may be taken in the matter.
In order to avoid the danger of serious limitations on the right of workers to elect their representatives in full freedom, cases involving a challenge to the results of trade union elections should not - pending the final outcome of the proceedings - have the effect of paralysing the operations of trade unions.
The Committee hopes that the measures taken by the Government will be lifted and that the workers' representatives who won the ANEP elections in August 1984 will be authorised to fulfil their duties in full freedom until a decision on the validity of the elections is reached and that, if necessary, an appeal may be made to the courts for a final decision in the matter.
B.
The Government's reply
29.
The Government transmits, as an annex to its communication of 3 July 1985, the text of judgement No. 155 of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice, dated 19 December 1984, dealing with an application for amparo (enforcement of constitutional rights) lodged by the General Secretary of the ANEP.
In this judgement, it is decided, in particular, that the following shall be without effect:  the administrative procedure suspending the registration of the executive committee of the ANEP, the retention of cheques representing members' dues and the non-payment of cheques drawn on the various current bank accounts.
30.
The preambular part of judgement No. 155 states in particular the following:
The Ministry of Labour suspended the functioning of the National Association of Public Employees by refusing to register the new composition of the national executive committee and thus, to certify the legal capacity of the body and also by ordering administrative establishments and public corporations to retain the dues of the Association's members.
It took those measures pending the outcome of an appeal lodged by one of the Association's members against the assembly that elected the members of the governing board.
The case is therefore one of suspension of trade union activities by administrative order.
This suspension violates freedom of association because it obstructs or prevents, albeit provisionally, the free functioning of the Association and restricts the right of association.
The Ministry was empowered only to verify compliance with the legal requirements that the documentation must satisfy (a rule implied in section 344 of the Labour Code), for any questions that may arise between the members concerning anomalies in the assembly which do not appear in the record must be settled by the members before the labour courts.
There is certainly no specific rule to that effect, but suspension of the registration of the governing board on grounds unconnected with the formalities of the documentation itself amounts to depriving the trade union of its legal existence pending an administrative ruling in a dispute which is of a judicial nature since the union cannot function without its executive organ (section 347, ibid).
The foregoing criterion does not conflict with the provisions of section 337 already mentioned and section 47 of the Ministry of Labour Organisation Act because, although it is the Ministry's duty to watch over social organisations in order to ensure that they function strictly in accordance with the law, this does not imply freedom to take measures which prevent the normal activity of the body.
Consequently, the measures referred to above are in breach of sections 10, 50, 11 and 153 of the Political Constitution.
31.
The Government states that, after a delivery of judgement No. 155 dealing with the application for amparo lodged by the National Association of Public Employees, the Department of Social Organisations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security proceeded to leave without effect the administrative procedure which had been started, to register the new governing board of the ANEP, to cancel the communications ordering retention of the check-off funds which had been sent out in virtue of the procedure started, to extend the approprate certification of the legal capacity of the ANEP and to inform those who had challenged the elections that their petition must be lodged through the judicial channel.
32.
The Government adds that, on the basis of judgement No. 155, the Department of Social Organisations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security has rejected every application made to it for the purpose of challenging the results of trade union elections, indicating that representations on such matters must be examined through the judicial channel.
Similarly, the practice followed by the Department of Social Organisations since the delivery of the aforementioned judgement has been to register the appointment of new executive committees as it occurs, without awaiting the outcome of any judicial proceedings challenging such appointments.
The result is that the functioning of a trade union organisation whose executive committee is challenged is at no time paralysed by administrative order.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
33.
The Committee observes with interest that judgement No. 155 of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice, dated 19 December 1984, expresses principles consistent with those enunciated by the Committee at its last session, objecting to the measures of administrative suspension of the ANEP, the freezing of the ANEP's bank accounts and the retention of check-off funds, which had been taken on the basis of an administrative appeal lodged by a defeated candidate for election to the new executive committee of the ANEP.
34.
The Committee observes in this connection that, as a result of judgement No. 155, the Department of Social Organisations of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security registered the new ANEP executive committee which had been elected, cancelled the communications sent out ordering retention of the check-off funds, and extended the appropriate certification of the legal capacity of the ANEP.
Furthermore, in accordance with judgement No. 155 and with the principle advanced by the Committee at its last session, the Department of Social Organisations informed those who had challenged the elections through the administrative channel that any complaint on that subject must be made through the judicial channel.
35.
In these circumstances, having regard to the measures adopted by the administrative authorities as described above, the Committee considers that this case does not call for further examination.
The Committee's recommendation
36.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to decide that this case does not call for further examination.
Case No. 1336
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE FEDERATION OF PROGRESSIVE UNIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS
37.
The Federation of Progressive Unions (FPU) presented a complaint of violations of trade union rights in a communication of 7 May 1985 and further information in a letter of 24 May 1985.
The Government replied in communications dated 10 June and 14 October 1985.
38.
Mauritius has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87);
it has not ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainant's allegations
39.
In its letter of 7 May 1985, the FPU complains of a government decision to prevent it celebrating May Day.
It alleges that the Commissioner of Police decided to ban the union's public meeting and cultural gathering to be held in a village in the south of the country for no apparent reason.
A copy of the Commissioner's notice of refusal addressed to a body called the "Organisation Southern Unity" is supplied;
no reason for the refusal appears in the notice.
From a newspaper clipping attached to the complaint, it appears that the FPU and the "Organisation Southern Unity" had intended to organise the festivities jointly.
40.
In its letter of 24 May 1985, the FPU alleges that on 17 May 1985, following an incident in an export processing zone factory in which two female workers were assaulted by the factory manager, all the workers in that factory decided to stop work;
some 20 other factories in the zone, whose employees are covered by the same union, decided to strike in solidarity.
According to the FPU, upon the intervention of the police and the army, the President of the union concerned and three other workers were arrested.
Two of the workers have since been released.
The FPU states that the Government has supported the employers by agreeing to withdraw recognition of the union in all the factories affected by the strike and is studying the cancellation of the check-off system.
The complainant points out that the assault of the two female workers was reported to the police but has not been followed up.
B.
The Government's reply
41.
In its communication of 10 June 1985, the Government states that the strike in one export processing zone factory on 16 May and the solidarity strike of the following day were unlawful because the procedures prescribed by law had not been complied with.
Moreover, the workers' representatives had seen the Minister of Labour the day before with various complaints about employment conditions and had been assured of immediate action.
The strike was called off on 18 May.
42.
The Government stresses that police presence at the factories during the strike was purely to ensure the preservation of law and order;
workers assembled in one place became riotous, stoned factories and injured two police officers with stones.
Three persons were arrested for throwing stones and others were arrested to aid in police inquiries into their contravention of the law of the land;
the latter have been released on bail after completion of the inquiry.
43.
The Government denies that the employers have asked for the cancellation of the registration of the unions concerned in the strike.
It states that some 30 workers have been suspended from their employment pending disciplinary hearings at the end of May and some others have not been allowed to resume work, both actions being legal since the workers had breached their employment contracts by participating in an unlawful strike.
The Government adds that it has pleaded for their reinstatement.
A number of workers have also filed statements with the Labour Inspectorate alleging unjustified dismissal and these are being examined.
44.
In its communication of 14 October 1985, the Government states that the FPU did not submit any application to the authorities concerned to hold public celebrations on May Day 1985.
However, an unregistered body (Organisation Southern Unity) had applied for permission to stage a public show on 1 May.
According to the Government, that organisation did not produce any documentary evidence proving that permission had been obtained from the appropriate authorities for the use of the premises where the show was to be performed.
In addition, the Censorship Board found the show unsuitable for young persons.
Consequently, the holding of the show was not authorised but the organisation was given leave to organise a procession in the south of the country.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
45.
As regards the prohibition of May Day celebrations, the Committee notes from the Government's reply that the prohibition of May Day 1985 festivities did not affect the complainant union since the application to hold the event was lodged by a body (the Organisation Southern Unity) which apparently is not trade union in character.
At no time does the complainant union mention any link with this body although it appears from a newspaper clipping attached to the complaint that the two organisations had intended to organise the festivities jointly.
Given the mandate of the Committee, it considers that this aspect of the case - which does not affect trade union rights - does not call for further examination.
46.
As regards the strike on 16-17 May 1985 in several export processing zone factories and the alleged retaliatory action of the Government (arrests, withdrawal of union recognition, etc.), the Committee notes the Government's statements that the strike was unlawful, that the arrests were based on the violent acts of the individuals concerned and that no cancellation of the union's registration has been sought.
The Committee observes that s. 92 of the Industrial Relations Act, 1973 declares strikes unlawful unless a written report of the industrial dispute has been made to the Minister, a cooling-off period of 21 days has elapsed and the strike commences within 56 days of notice.
It is therefore clear that the strike in the present case was unlawful under the legislation in force.
The Committee considers that it should call the attention of the complainant to Article 8 of Convention No. 87 which provides that, in exercising the rights provided for in this Convention, workers and their organisations shall respect the law of the land.
The Committee also considers that there is no evidence that the arrests were made for reasons other than preservation of law and order.
47.
On the other hand, the Committee notes that the Government mentions the suspension of some 30 workers and the dismissal of others for participating in the unlawful strike.
A number of these workers are challenging their dismissals with the Labour Inspectorate and the Government has interceded for their reinstatement.
Since the normal processes in connection with the suspensions (disciplinary hearings) and dismissals (complaints before the Labour Inspectorate) are under way and the Government has interceded with the employers for reinstatements, the Committee considers that the principles of freedom of association have not been called into question and decides that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
The Committee's recommendation
48.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to decide that the case as whole does not call for further examination.
CASES IN WHICH THE COMMITTEE HAS REACHED DEFINITIVE CONCLUSIONS
Case No. 1040
COMPLAINTS SUBMITTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS AND THE GENERAL UNION OF CENTRAL AFRICAN WORKERS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
49.
The Committee has already examined this case on a number of occasions and most recently at its May 1984 meeting when, in the absence of any reply from the Government which had not sent any substantive information in response to the requests voiced by the Committee in its previous reports, it presented an interim report to the Governing Body [see 234th Report, paras. 445-484, approved by the Governing Body at its 226th Session (May-June 1984)].
50.
At its February 1985 meeting, the Committee noted that the Government had still not sent the desired information and observations, appealed to it to transmit its observations as a matter of urgency and indicated that, in conformity with its procedural rules, it would present a report on the substance of the case at its meeting in May 1985 [see 238th Report, para. 20, approved by the Governing Body at its 229th Session (February-March l985)].
51.
Since then, the ILO has received two communications from the Government dated 8 and 22 May 1985.
52.
The Central African Republic has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1949 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
53.
The complaints related mainly to the dissolution by administrative authority of the General Union of Central African Workers (UGTC) but also concerned the occupation of the latter's premises, the freezing of its assets and the censorship imposed on it, as well as a number of dismissals.
Trade union activities in the country were subsequently suspended and several trade unionists, including the Secretary-General of the UGTC, Sonny Cole, were arrested.
54.
The complainants explained that the UGTC had called a general strike on 15 May 1981 throughout the private sector, following unsuccessful attempts at collective bargaining with the Government and with the employers.
According to the complainants, the Government had rejected the list of grievances presented by the workers on the occasion of May Day, although the list contained demands relating for the most part to the working conditions of all employed persons.
55.
On 16 May 1981, the day after the strike, the President of the Republic dissolved the organisation by decree on the grounds of its alleged uncompromising attitude in the negotiations with the employers and the Government, its alleged secret dealings abroad and its illegality arising from the trade union monopoly status provided for in its by-laws.
The UGTC also alleged that, 48 hours prior to its dissolution, the authorities recognised a new central trade union organisation, the National Confederation of Central African Workers (CNTC).
56.
Subsequently, the UGTC alleged the dismissal or suspension of a number of trade unionists and attached to its communication a Ministerial Order of 23 May 1981 suspending four senior officials from their duties.
It also enclosed a note from the Ministry ordering the Director-General of the National Savings Bank of Central Africa to block the account of the UGTC.
57.
Furthermore, as soon as it came to power on l September 1981, the Military Committee of National Reconstruction suspended all the activities of political parties and national organisations, including trade unions, throughout the country.
58.
Following the blocking of the UGTC's assets, the organisation's Secretary-General, Sonny Cole, lodged a complaint against the Government with the Bangui Court.
The hearing, which should have been held on 17 March 1982, did not take place because of the arrest of three of the court judges, including the President of the Administrative Court.
59.
Lastly, the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) alleged that Sonny Cole and other trade unionists had been arrested on 2 February 1983 for incitement to strike.
60.
In its initial replies, the Government confirmed that the UGTC had been dissolved and explained that, in its opinion, the general strike of l5 May 1981 had had nothing to do with the conditions of work of employed persons but had been political in nature.
It affirmed that it had dissolved the UGTC, which was exercising a trade union monopoly, in order to enable Central African workers to create freely the trade unions of their own choosing.
61.
The Government stated that, since the UGTC had been dissolved, several central trade union organisations had been set up by the workers themselves: the National Confederation of Central African Workers (CNTC), the Central African Confederation of Free Trade Unions (CCSL) and the Central African Federation of Labour (FCT). The by-laws of these organisations were being examined by the Ministry of the Interior.
The Government indicated, however, that trade union activities had been suspended and that it was therefore out of the question to recognise the CCSL or any new organisation that might be set up in the prevailing circumstances.
It acknowledged that it had blocked the UGTC's bank accounts to safeguard the workers' assets and explained that the Bangui High Court was making an inventory of the assets of the former UGTC and would decide how they were to be allocated to organisations pursuing the same aims.
According to the Government, the suspension of certain officials was a disciplinary measure taken against senior administrative officials found guilty of dereliction of duty, whose professional misconduct constituted lawful grounds for terminating their contracts of employment.
62.
According to a statement by a Government representative to the Conference Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations in 1982, the UGTC's bank deposits disappeared after the UGTC was dissolved, its officers with power of signature having rushed to the banks to draw cheques for their own benefit, as could still be proved.
The Government representative stated that there was nothing to prevent the members of the former UGTC from establishing a new trade union organisation of their own choosing.
63.
Addressing the Conference Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations in 1983, the Government representative indicated that the Head of State had suspended all trade union and political activities in order to restore order and stop the trade union being utilised by political parties.
However, although in practice political activities were suspended, trade union activities continued and the National Confederation of Central African Workers enjoyed freedom of expression.
64.
With respect to the arrest of Sonny Cole, the Government stated that the acts of which he was accused were of a political nature.
Sonny Cole and his fellow trade unionists were later released on l May 1983.
65.
At its May-June 1984 session the Governing Body approved the following recommendations of the Committee:
"(a)
The Committee regrets the uncooperative attitude of the Government as regards this case as a whole.
(b)
In general the Committee wishes to express its deep concern at the seriousness of the measure to suspend trade union activities which has affected all aspects of trade union life since September 1981.
It expresses the firm hope that trade union organisations in the Central African Republic will be able to resume their activities as rapidly as possible and that all workers will be able to establish organisations of their choosing, including an organisation carrying on from the ex-UGTC if they so wish.
It requests the Government to inform it of any measure it may take with a view to re-establishing the activities of all trade union organisations that wish to exist in the country.
(c)
While noting the release of Sonny Cole and his colleagues on the occasion of the May Day celebrations in 1983, after three months' detention for incitement to strike, the Committee recalls that the arrest of trade unionists, and particularly of trade union leaders, for activities connected with the defence of the interests of workers, constitutes a serious infringement of civil liberties in general and of trade union rights in particular.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to communicate the judgement of the Bangui Court concerning the dissolution of the UGTC and the transfer of its assets as soon as it has been handed down.
(e)
As regards the arrest of judges of the Bangui Court, including the President of the Administrative Tribunal, the Committee requests the Government to indicate whether these arrests were related to the case pending before the court which concerned the dissolution by administrative authority of the UGTC and the transfer of its assets.
(f)
The Committee notes that talks between its Chairman and the Government representative of the Central African Republic took place on 14 June 1983 at the 69th Session of the International Labour Conference concerning the possibility of an on-the-spot mission to examine all the questions at issue.
The Committee urges the Government to transmit its reply concerning this mission, which it considers would be most useful and would enable it to reach conclusions on this case in full knowledge of the facts."
B.
The Government's reply
66.
In a telegram of 8 May 1985, the Government informed the Committee that it was sending a memorandum on the case. A subsequent communication dated 9 May 1985 from the Ministry of the Public Service, Labour and Social Security, containing the Government's detailed explanations on the matter, reached the ILO on 22 May 1985.
67.
According to the Government, the dissolution of the UGTC is lawful inasmuch as the organisation strayed from its essential objective of defending the occupational, social and economic interests of its members.
The UGTC had originally been set up under the 1964 Constitution which had institutionalised a single-party system in the form of the Social Development Movement of Black Africa (MESAN), implicit in which was the existence of a single central trade union organisation, the UGTC, representing all occupational trade unions.
68.
The Government explained that the dissolution of the UGTC, a single central trade union organisation that was an instrument of the MESAN, was the natural consequence, in law, of the institution of a multi-party political system under the Constitution of 5 February 1981.
In other words, the Government's decision to dissolve the UGTC is in line with the new Constitution and therefore lawful.
69.
The Government goes on to explain that the dissolution of the UGTC left all workers free to set up organisations of their own choosing and that three central trade union organisations had been established by the workers themselves:  the National Confederation of Central African Workers (CNTC), affiliated to the World Confederation of Labour, on 10 August 1980; the Central African Federation of Labour (FCT), affiliated to the World Federation of Trade unions, on 12 July 1981;  and the Central African Confederation of Free Trade Unions (CCSL), affiliated to the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, also in 1981.
The Government admits, however, that the by-laws of the two last-named organisations are still being examined by the Ministry of the Interior which is conducting the customary investigation into the moral standards of their officers in accordance with national legislation governing associations.
70.
The Government further explains that, as a result of the establishment of these central organisations, there had been a serious split within the UGTC, that the organisation's leaders had been manipulated by the political parties and by foreign interests and had deviated from its objectives, that they had incited workers to revolt and that they had thus disrupted economic activities and law and order, paralysed the public institutions and endangered the very life of the nation.
Furthermore, according to the Government, it was in this climate of insurrection, with the political parties pressing trade union demands for their own ends, that the Military Committee of National Reconstruction ordered the suspension of the activities of all national organisations, including central trade union organisations, throughout the country.
71.
With respect to the restitution of the former UGTC's assets, the Government states that the Court has not yet handed down its judgement on the matter.
It reiterates its earlier statement that the organisation's local bank deposits were withdrawn on 19 May 1981 by the former leaders of the UGTC who had used them for their own purposes.
In the Government's view, it was only logical that they be asked to account for their actions.
The Government adds that the alleged arrest of the Bangui Court judges was quite unrelated to the case pending before the court.
72.
Finally, the Government continues, it was in the wake of a wildcat strike held by workers in the private sector to block a government decision to extend to private sector workers the exceptional contribution to national reconstruction that had hitherto been required only from workers in the employ of the State that a number of trade unionists, including former UGTC Secretary-General Sonny Cole and his colleagues, had been arrested in January 1983 following a police investigation for incitement to an illegal strike that was tantamount to a revolt against the legitimate authority of the State.
On May Day of 1983, however, they had been released and reinstated in their duties, according to the Government.
73.
With respect to the resumption of trade union activities, the Government states that the purpose of the "trade union truce" which it called in September l981 had been to bring about a climate of peace and security in which to revive the national economy after 15 years of plunder and ruin and to extricate the nation from the deplorable situation brought about by the irresponsible behaviour of the political parties, of the organisations that were their instruments and of certain politicised trade union leaders.
The Government assures the Committee that it will in due course order the general resumption of trade union activities once a climate conducive to harmonious development has been restored and the sources of economic and social disruption have been eradicated;  for the time being, however, no new development warrants its reconsidering its decision and thus risking a return to the situation that obtained prior to September 1981.
74.
In conclusion, the Government believes that the complaints considered by the Committee in the present case should be dropped inasmuch as there is no new element to justify their further consideration in the present circumstances, since the suspension of the activities of national organisations is a general measure that is not specifically directed at trade unions, the right to organise continues to exist in the Central African Republic in accordance with its international commitments;  a recognised trade union organisation, the National Confederation of Central African Workers, is collaborating with the public authorities and the employers in tripartite bodies operating at the national and international level;  and the Government's decision which is the object of the complaint prohibits only demonstrations or activities of organisations liable to be politicised or to disturb the peace and disrupt the economy during the current period of national reconstruction.
75.
Speaking before the Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations of the International Labour Conference in 1985, the Government representative reiterated the explanations that his Government had given in its written communication of 9 May 1985.
Regarding the possible date of resumption of trade union activities, he stated that he was not qualified to furnish any information on the subject but that, although the Military Committee had banned all national demonstrations, the Government had called on the workers to take part in the ceremonies that were to be held to commemorate the national holiday, which could be looked upon as a positive sign.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
76.
In the first place, the Committee deplores the fact that it was only after it had sent the Government two urgent appeals in February 1984 and February 1985 that the latter sent a memorandum on the subject on 9 May l985.
Moreover, the memorandum on the whole provides very little additional information.
77.
The Committee regrets particularly that the Government should have chosen not to respond to its proposal and that of the Governing Body that direct contacts be initiated.
Considering the importance and gravity of the matters raised in the complaints and the inadequate information supplied by the Government, the Committee is convinced that an on-the-spot mission by a representative of the Director-General would have helped to shed light on the trade union situation and contributed to a useful examination of appropriate solutions to the existing problems.
78.
The Committee therefore feels obliged to recall that the purpose of the procedure that has been initiated is to secure the respect of trade union freedoms de jure and de facto and that it is convinced that, just as it protects governments against unreasonable accusations, the governments themselves must surely recognise the importance of their submitting detailed replies to the allegations made against them so that they can be examined objectively.
79.
The Committee recalls that the complaints originally submitted in this case related to the dissolution of the UGTC which was ordered by decree No. 81/216 signed by the President of the Republic on 16 May 1981.
Although the Committee notes the Government's repeated explanations regarding the trade union monopoly status exercised by the UGTC and the creation of a pluralistic trade union movement in accordance with the Constitution, the fact remains that a trade union organisation was dissolved by administrative authority in clear violation of Article 4 of Convention No. 87 ratified by the Central African Republic.
80.
The dissolution of the UGTC naturally raises the question of the restitution of the funds and assets belonging to the organisation.
The Committee observes that the Government itself recognises that the Court examining the case has not yet handed down its judgement.
Under the circumstances, the Committee cannot but reiterate the principle that, when an organisation is dissolved, its assets should eventually be distributed among its former members or handed over to the organisation that succeeds it;  this must be taken to mean the organisation or organisations which pursue the aims for which the dissolved union was established and which pursue them in the same spirit.
[See, for example, 174th Report, Case No. 900 (Spain), para. 258, and 209th Report, Case No. 763 (Uruguay), para. 78].
81.
The application of this principle implies that the workers should have the right to set up organisations of their own choosing and, in particular, should be able, if they so desire, to establish an organisation that genuinely takes over from the UGTC.
In this regard, the Committee notes the Government's repeated statements that the purpose of dissolving the UGTC was precisely in order to make possible trade union pluralism.
It also notes the Government's further affirmation that several central trade union organisations were set up following the dissolution of the UGTC.
The Committee must, however, observe that the Government itself recognises that only the CNTC has been legally registered and that the by-laws of the two other organisations set up in 1981 are still being examined by the Ministry of the Interior in 1985.
Moreover, the delegation of the Central African Republic to the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference in 1985 apparently included no representative of these two central organisations.
The Committee therefore calls upon the Government as a matter of great urgency to take steps to ensure that the workers are able both under the law and in practice to establish the organisations of their own choosing, in accordance with Article 2 of Convention No. 87.
It calls upon the Government to indicate the current status of the property of the former UGTC, including both its fixed and its liquid assets, and the reasons why the Bangui Court which has been examining the matter of the restitution of the assets of this organisation since 1982 has not yet handed down its judgement.
82.
With regard to the cancellation of trade union activities, which in the Central African Republic is known as the "trade union truce", the Committee notes that, according to the Government, trade union activities in the country are in practice normal and that the CNTC enjoys freedom of expression.
The Committee observes, nevertheless, that the Government itself admits that the free exercise of trade union rights applies only to one central organisation.
The Government has moreover recognised that the fact that trade union activities are suspended prevents it from recognising any new organisation that might be set up in the prevailing circumstances.
The Committee must therefore emphasise that all workers in the Central African Republic should have the right to engage freely in the defence and promotion of their economic and social interests through central organisations of their choice.
83.
The Committee considers that a return to normal trade union life must be the objective of the Government, which has ratified Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 and is consequently required to apply them.
The Committee is therefore of the opinion that the question of the restitution of the assets of the former UGTC, that of the cancellation of trade union activities and that of the non-registration of the by-laws deposited in 1981 by the Central African Federation of Labour and the Central African Confederation of Free Trade Unions all warrant being brought to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations.
The Committee's recommendations
84.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
the Committee deplores that, despite the assurances given to the Chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Association and the Conference Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations at a number of sessions of the International Labour Conference, the Government has not taken steps to restore freedom of association in the Central African Republic;
(b)
the Committee deeply deplores the fact that it should have had to send the Government two urgent appeals in February 1984 and February 1985 before the latter sent detailed information on this matter and regrets that it has not chosen to take up the proposal for a direct contacts mission to be sent to the country;
(c)
the Committee notes that the dissolution of the General Union of Central African Workers was pronounced by administrative authority, in violation of Article 4 of Convention No. 87 ratified by the Central African Republic;
(d)
the Committee recalls that the assets of an organisation which has been dissolved should be distributed among its former members or handed over to the organisation that succeeds it, by which is meant the organisation or organisations which pursue the same aims in the same spririt.
It calls upon the Government to indicate the current status of the property of the former UGTC, including both its fixed and its liquid assets, and the reasons why the Bangui Court that has been examining the matter of the restitution of the assets of this organisation since 1982 has not yet handed down its judgement;
(e)
the Committee calls upon the Government as a matter of great urgency to take steps to ensure that the workers are able both under the law and in practice to establish organisations of their own choosing, in accordance with Article 2 of Convention No. 87, which has been ratified by the Central African Republic;
(f)
the Committee emphasises that all workers in the Central African Republic should have the right to engage freely in the defence and promotion of their economic and social interests through the central organisations of their own choice;
(g)
the Committee draws the entire case to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, and specifically the question of the cancellation of trade union activities declared under the "trade union truce" and that of the failure to register the by-laws deposited since 1981 by two Central African central trade union organisations which the Ministry of the Interior has now been examining for four years.
The Committee considers this to be in flagrant breach of the Conventions on freedom of association which have been ratified by the Central African Republic.
Cases Nos. 1098, 1132, 1254, 1257, 1290, 1299 and 1316
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY SEVERAL TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
85.
On 26 August 1985, the Government sent information on Cases Nos. 1098, 1132, 1254, 1257, 1290, 1299 and 1316 concerning allegations of infringements of freedom of association presented by numerous workers' organisations. Its communication contained details of the steps taken since the Government assumed power on 1 March 1985 to halt the deterioration in the trade union situation in Uruguay and restore democracy.
The Committee intends to examine all these cases, which relate to a trade union situation that arose under the regime that came to power as a result of the military takeover in 1973, in a single document.
86.
Uruguay has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
General statement by the Government
87.
In its letter of 26 August 1985, the Government states that the process of institutionalising democracy, and therefore of remedying the trade union situation, began on 1 March 1985. It recalls that it sent a representative to the May 1985 meeting of the Committee on Freedom of Association to explain what was happening and that a government representative informed the Governing Body of the ILO that a democratic Uruguay had now returned to the Organisation which was aware of its responsibilities and prepared to respect its commitments.
The Government goes on to supply details of the various cases before the Committee.
B.
The complaints
Cases Nos. 1098 and 1132
88.
The complaints still pending concern the alleged arrest of trade unionists Luís Washington Rodríguez Belleti of the sugarworkers' union and Rubén Bello of the portworkers' union.
At its May 1985 meeting, the Committee noted the information communicated by the Government in March 1985 to the effect that one of the trade unionists cited by the complainants was in hiding and that another had not been released after the declaration of an amnesty.
The Committee requested the Government to indicate the grounds for the sentences passed on these two trade union leaders.
[See 239th Report, para. 209, approved by the Governing Body at its 230th Session (May-June 1985).]
89.
The Government has replied that the trade unionists referred to have been released, that no charge has been brought against them, that they have not been sentenced and that no legal proceedings have been initiated.
Cases Nos. 1254, 1257, 1299 and 1316
90.
The complaints presented under these cases refer to the dismissal of public servants and teachers for trade union reasons and the questioning at police headquarters of members of the Co-ordinating Committee for the Teaching Profession in connection with a public meeting in February 1984 (Case No. 1254), to the arrest of union members and the dissolution of the Inter-Union Workers' Assembly (PIT) (Case No. 1257), to the excessive restrictions on the right to strike imposed in 1984 by the law on strikes and the decree made under it (Case No. 1299) and to the Government's withdrawal of the credentials of the Workers' delegation of Uruguay to the First Session of the Food and Drink Industries Committee held at the ILO in Geneva on 5 December 1984 (Case No. 1316).
91.
The Government recalls that these complaints arose out of the earlier situation to which it refers in its general statement, namely the refusal to constitute a tripartite delegation and the law on trade unions that was in force at the time.
It points out that Act No. 15738 of 13 March 1985, of which it encloses a copy, repeals the so-called "Acts" Nos. 14248 (on the democratic oath), 15137 (on occupational associations), 15530 (on strikes) and 15587 (on trade union immunity) and the so-called "Fundamental Acts" Nos. 3 (on strikes by public servants), 5 and 6 (on stability of employment of state employees working under contract) and 7 (on the redeployment of public servants).
The Government explains that, as a result of the repeal of this legislation, their juridical effects were annulled and that, consequently, international labour Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 are now fully applicable and may, if necessary, be cited in a court of law.
Moreover, Decree No. 97/985 of 1 March 1985, of which the Government encloses a copy, revokes the resolutions adopted by the previous "de facto" Government, including the resolution dissolving the National Workers' Convention (CNT) and the Inter-Union Workers' Assembly (PIT), both of which were, according to the Government, immediately able to resume their trade union activities under perfectly normal conditions.
Case No. 1290
92.
This complaint concerns the alleged dismissal of trade unionists employed by the "Nicolás González" international freight transport undertaking.
The Government had stated that one of the trade union leaders had been reinstated in his job following a conciliation meeting presided over by the administrative authority and, at its November 1984 meeting, the Committee had requested the Government to communicate the result of the administrative proceedings concerning the other union members.
[See 236th Report, para. 390.]
93.
The Government replies that the complainants have not re-presented their demands to the new administrative authorities and have not lodged any appeal with the competent courts.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
94.
The Committee notes with satisfaction the information communicated by the Government on these cases and, specifically, the repeal of the earlier trade union legislation which was the subject of several complaints, the revoking of the resolutions dissolving the National Workers' Convention (CNT) and the Inter-Union Workers' Assembly (PIT) and the resumption by these two organisations of their trade union activities in Uruguay.
95.
The Committee trusts that the Government of Uruguay will soon institute a system of labour relations which has the support of the interested parties; it will be for the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to examine subsequent developments.
The Committee's recommendations
96.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes with satisfaction that the earlier trade union legislation which was the subject of complaints by several workers' organisations has been repealed and that the National Workers' Convention and the Inter-union Workers' Assembly are now participating legally in the trade union life of the country.
(b)
The Committee trusts that the Government will soon institute a system of labour relations which has the support of the parties concerned;  it will be for the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to examine subsequent developments in the trade union situation.
Cases Nos. 1172, 1234, 1247 and 1260
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE CANADIAN LABOUR CONGRESS, THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF ORGANISATIONS OF THE TEACHING PROFESSION AND THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA (ONTARIO), BY THE CANADIAN LABOUR CONGRESS ON BEHALF OF THE ALBERTA UNION OF PROVINCIAL EMPLOYEES AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA (ALBERTA), BY THE CONFEDERATION OF ALBERTA FACULTY ASSOCIATIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA (ALBERTA) AND BY THE CANADIAN LABOUR CONGRESS ON BEHALF OF THE NEWFOUNDLAND ASSOCIATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA (NEWFOUNDLAND)
97.
The complaint (Case No. 1172) of the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC), on behalf of its affiliated organisations the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE), the Ontario Public Service Employees Union (OPSEU) and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE), is contained in a communication dated 15 November 1982.
The CLC supplied additional information in communications dated 15 December 1982, 16 February and 28 October 1983 and 10 January 1984.
The World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP), presented its complaint, on behalf of its affiliates the Canadian Teachers Federation and the Ontario Teachers Federation, in a letter of 8 February 1983 and further information in a communication of 7 March 1983.
The Service Employees International Union (SEIU) presented its complaint in a letter dated 6 April 1984.
The Government sent its observations in communications dated 25 April 1983 and 7 June and 16 October 1984.
98.
The Confederation of Alberta Faculty Associations (CAFA) presented a complaint (Case No. 1234) of violations of trade union rights against the Government of Canada/Alberta in a communication dated 19 September 1983.
The Government supplied its observations in a communication dated 21 February 1984.
99.
The Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) presented a complaint (Case No. 1247) of infringements of trade union rights in Alberta in a communication dated 1 November 1983 on behalf of the Alberta Union of Provincial Employees (AUPE), a component of the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE) which is the CLC's second largest affiliate.
The Government transmitted its observations in a communication dated 3 May 1984.
100.
The Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) presented a complaint (Case No. 1260) of infringements of trade union rights in Newfoundland in a communication dated 3 February 1984 on behalf of the Newfoundland Association of Public Employees (NAPE), a component of the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE) which is affiliated to the CLC.
The Government transmitted its observations in a communication dated 29 May 1984.
101.
The Governing Body Committee on Freedom of Association, at its meeting in November 1984 [236th Report, para. 7, approved by the Governing Body at its 228th Session, November 1984], decided to postpone its examination of the cases concerning Ontario, Alberta and Newfoundland since it was of the view that, before reaching conclusions in these cases, it would be necessary to obtain additional information, particularly through a study and information mission, which could assist in clarifying aspects of the laws and practices involved.
The Committee accordingly requested the Government to indicate its consent to such a procedure.
102.
In a letter dated 1 February 1985 the Government indicated that, after consultation with the various provincial governments concerned, it had no objection to such a mission taking place.
103.
In its 238th Report, para. 10 [approved by the Governing Body at its 229th Session, February-March 1985], the Committee explained that the study and information mission would take place within the context of its examination of the cases.
It emphasised that its proposal for such a mission stemmed from a desire on its part to reach conclusions in as full a knowledge and understanding as possible of the complex issues involved.
It said that it was convinced that its work would be greatly facilitated by an on-the-spot appreciation of the day-to-day practical operation, in local conditions, of the legislation that was the subject of the complaints.
104.
Arrangements were accordingly made for a study and information mission to take place in Canada - in particular, the Provinces of Ontario, Alberta and Newfoundland - from 12 to 25 September 1985.
The Director-General of the ILO appointed Sir John Wood, CBE, LLM, as his representative to carry out the mission;  he was accompanied during the mission by Mr. William R. Simpson, Chief of the Freedom of Association Branch of the International Labour Standards Department and Mrs. Jane Hodges, an official of the Freedom of Association Branch.
The report of the representative of the Director-General is annexed to this paper.
105.
Canada has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87);
it has not ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) or the Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 (No. 151).
* *   * 106.
The Committee wishes first to express its deep appreciation to Sir John Wood for having undertaken this study and information mission as representative of the Director-General.
It is thanks to his detailed report on all the cases examined that the Committee has been able to reach its conclusions in a fuller knowledge and with a greater understanding of the complex issues involved in these cases.
In the view of the Committee, the report of the representative of the Director-General clearly demonstrates the usefulness of missions of this kind especially in difficult cases where, despite the voluminous documentation submitted by the parties, on-the-spot discussions can throw much additional light on the problems involved.
107.
The Committee also wishes to express its thanks to the Government of Canada and to the Governments of the Provinces of Alberta, Ontario and Newfoundland for their co-operation with the mission.
It also thanks the representatives of the Canadian Labour Congress, the National Union of Provincial Government Employees and those of the many other international, national or provincial unions who assisted the representative of the Director-General in carrying out his mandate.
108.
Since the complaints and the replies of the various governments, as well as the information obtained during the mission, have all been fully analysed in the report of the representative of the Director-General, it only remains for the Committee to proceed to the formulation of its conclusions in the cases which it has now fully examined.
A.
The Committee's conclusions on Case No. 1172/Ontario
109.
The Committee has taken note of all the information contained in the various complaints submitted in this case, the reply transmitted by the Government of the Province of Ontario and the detailed information obtained by the representative of the Director-General during the study and information mission.
110.
The allegations in this case concern the enactment, in 1982, of the Inflation Restraint Act (or Bill 179) which came into effect on 21 September of that year.
Since September 1983 Bill 179 is no longer in force, having been replaced by a further enactment, on 10 October 1983, known as the Public Sector Prices and Compensation Review Act (or Bill 111).
No formal complaint has been submitted regarding this latter enactment.
Since, however, as the representative of the Director-General has pointed out in his report, it is directly relevant to the issues raised in the complaint and is the latest act by the Government in the area of public sector collective bargaining, the Committee considers it appropriate to express its views on this legislation which, it notes, was also due to expire at the end of September 1985.
The Committee further observes that the representative of the Director-General was able, during his mission, to obtain the views both of the unions and of the Government on the content and effects of Bill 111.
111.
Bill 179 was enacted in the face of what the Government considerd as an emergency situation requiring action to counter rising inflation.
It placed restrictions on collective bargaining for provincial public servants and employees of semi-public provincial institutions.
The provisions of the Act have the effect of extending for a period of 12 months compensation plans that were in the process of negotiation or due to expire during the period from 1 October 1982 to 30 September 1983.
112.
The complainants have alleged that, although they were consulted about future government action, their observations and opinions went unheeded.
In their opinion the economic situation at that time did not warrant emergency legislative measures being taken to restrain public service incomes.
113.
On this first point, the Committee notes from the report of the representative of the Director-General that there has been a lively debate as to the depth or even the existence of economic problems, but that, particularly in the present case, the Government was convinced that the economic situation in the province demanded urgent attention.
Whatever the situation, there were, in the Government's view, obvious economic problems which it decided to tackle through the application of wage restraint legislation in the public sector.
It is not for the Committee to question the economic arguments that formed the basis of that view or of the action that the Government took.
114.
It is, however, for the Committee to express its views on the question whether, in taking such action, the Government went beyond what the Committee has considered to be acceptable limits that might be placed temporarily on free collective bargaining.
115.
In the first place, the immediate effect of the legislation (Bill 179) was to limit public sector wage increases, for a period which did not exceed one year, to 5 per cent (in some cases 9 per cent).
In this respect, the Committee recalls that it had acknowledged that stabilisation measures restricting the right to collective bargaining are acceptable on condition that they are of an exceptional nature, and only to the extent that they are necessary, without exceeding a reasonable period, and that they are accompanied by adequate safeguards to protect workers' living standards.
The Committee considers, on the basis of all the information now at its disposal, that, in the present case, all these criteria were met or at least serious efforts were made by the Government to respect these criteria.
116.
Another immediate effect of Bill 179 was to reduce increases negotiated in compensation plans prior to the date on which the legislation became applicable where such increases exceeded those provided for in the Act.
While the Committee appreciates that the introduction of wage restraint measures must be timed in order to obtain the maximum impact on the economic situation, it nevertheless considers that the interruption of already negotiated contracts is not in conformity with the principles of free collective bargaining because such contracts should be respected.
117.
As regards the complainants' original allegations that Bill 179 not only imposed financial restrictions but also interrupted all trade union activity, including the right to bargain on non-monetary items and the right to change bargaining agents, the Committee notes that, from a strictly legal point of view, these arguments were proved to be unfounded by the Ontario Court of Appeal in the Broadway Manor case.
This decision, however, was handed down too late to be of any practical assistance to the parties during the  control period and it is clear that, despite the Court's ruling, much difficulty and tension were caused as a result of the problems that arose on these matters.
It is clear that bargaining on non-monetary items was obstructed during the course of the legislation so as not to undermine the intended financial control.
It is also clear that it was the Government's intention to prevent  any change in the bargaining agent during the restraint period in order, according to the representative of the Director-General, to secure as much industrial relations tranquility as possible during that period.
The Committee is of the view that, where wage restraint measures are taken by a Government to impose financial controls, care should be taken to ensure that collective bargaining on non-monetary matters can be pursued and that unions and their members can fully exercise their normal trade union activity.
118.
The Committee further notes that forceful arguments were submitted by the unions that the regular industrial relations machinery had been adversely affected by Bill 179 and subsequently by Bill 111.
The fixed norm imposed by Bill 179 in effect constituted a substitute for arbitration.
Under Bill 111 the unions argue, the freedom to bargain as well as the freedom of interest arbitrators is severely curtailed by the necessity to take account of the ability of the employer to pay as well as government fiscal policy.
Questions were also raised concerning the independence of arbitrators.
119.
Bill 111, the Committee observes, was introduced as a substitute for Bill 179 and removed many of the restrictions on wage bargaining that Bill 179 had been designed to cover.
Bill 111, however, it seems clear, did constitute - although in a much less rigid manner - a continuation of the policy of restraint by the introduction of such concepts as "the employer's ability to pay" and "government fiscal policy" as criteria for consideration in arriving at wage settlements.
There was much controversy, even amongst arbitrators, as to the extent to which these criteria actually influenced bargaining  and arbitration awards or whether they were indeed at all times taken into account.
120.
The Committee would emphasise, in this connection, that restrictions on the right to strike in the public service or in essential services should be compensated by adequate, impartial and speedy conciliation and arbitration proceedings.
The Committee would also emphasise that the independence and impartiality of the arbitration system are paramount.
If, however, as in the present case, arbitrators are directly appointed by a government which lays down in legislation certain criteria which arbitrators are bound to follow in the determination of awards it is inevitable that confidence in the system will diminish.
121.
In the view of the Committee, the expiry of Bill 111 now renders possible a return to a normal situation in which collective bargaining can take place freely with recourse being available, when appropriate, to arbitration.
The loss of confidence of the unions and other residual negative effects on industrial relations that have resulted from the recent wage restraint legislation could, at least to some extent, be offset by consideration being given by the Government, in consultation with the unions, to ensuring that the arbitration system, including the selection of arbitrators, enjoys the fullest possible confidence of all the parties.
The Committee's recommendations
122.
The Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this part of the report and in particular the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee is of the view that, in general, the Inflation Restraint Act (Bill 179) did not go beyond what the Committee has previously considered to be normally acceptable limits that might be placed temporarily on collective bargaining;
(b)
The Committee, however, considers that the interruption, by Bill 179, of contracts that had been already negotiated is not in conformity with the principles of free collective bargaining because such contracts should be respected;
(c)
The Committee would emphasise that, where wage restraint measures are taken by a government to impose financial controls, care should be taken to ensure that collective bargaining on non-monetary matters can be pursued and that unions and their members can fully exercise their normal trade union activity;
(d)
The Committee stresses that restrictions on the right to strike in public or essential services should be compensated by adequate, speedy and impartial conciliation and arbitration proceedings;
(e)
The Committee would express the hope that, since the legislation which was the subject of complaint has now expired, the Government, in consultation with the unions, will endeavour to overcome any residual negative effects of that legislation on industrial relations;
more particularly, the Committee hopes that the arbitration system, and the procedures for the selection of arbitrators, will be revised in such a manner as to ensure that they enjoy the fullest confidence possible of all the parties.
B.
The Committee's conclusions on Case No. 1234/Alberta
123.
The Committee notes that this case concerns allegations that amendments to the Universities Act deny freedom of association to faculty staff by empowering the employers (the Boards of Governors) to determine the membership of academic staff associations.
The complainant cites the negative effect of the amendments on staff association membership at Athabasca University.
124.
The Committee observes that this situation arises from the combined effect of two provisions of the Act, namely section 21.2(2) which defines "academic staff association" as a body consisting of "academic staff members", and section 17(1)(d.1) which empowers the Boards of Governors to designate "academic staff members".
Although the Government's written reply stresses that the university environment requires a special approach to the employer-employee relationship because of the involvement of faculty staff in all levels of university management, it acknowledges that the employer at Athabasca University - after consultation with the faculty association - altered its restrictive designation of "academic staff members".
125.
It appears from the report of the representative of the Director-General that only at Athabasca University did the employer's use of its designation power lead to problems.
In the three other universities of the Province, designations of "academic staff members" were arrived at without difficulty in consultation with the faculty associations.
Moreover, it appears that the peculiar circumstances at Athabasca University (namely, that it is an open university and was recently transferred from the provincial capital to a town in the north of Alberta) might have led to misunderstandings regarding the employer's restrictive designation of academic staff at that particular point in time.
In any event, the Committee notes that designations have now been made in all four provincial universities to the satisfaction of both sides.
126.
What remains is the fear that future designations could be made to exclude faculty members and non-management administrative or planning personnel from membership of the staff associations whose purpose is to protect and defend the interests of these categories of workers.
If designated as non-academic, these workers - who are specifically excluded from the Labour Relations Act and the Public Service Employee Relations Act - would have no possibility of forming or joining an association to further their interests.
In these circumstances the Committee draws the Government's attention to the terms of Article 2 of Convention No. 87, ratified by Canada, which guarantee the right of all workers, without distinction whatsoever, to join or establish organisations of their own choosing.
The particular circumstances of university decision-making in Alberta do not appear to the Committee to justify any restriction on this right through the vesting of wide designation powers in the employer body.
The Committee recalls that it already came to this conclusion in its examination of past cases concerning the Provincial Government of Alberta to which the complainant refers in its written complaint.
127.
The Committee accordingly considers that, in order to ensure full compliance with the principle of Article 2 of Convention No. 87, measures should be taken to repeal section 17(1)(d.1) and introduce an independent system of designation where agreement cannot be reached (for example, as suggested during the study and information mission, third party arbitration machinery).
The Committee stresses this latter point because although the report of the representative of the Director-General indicates that consultations between the parties have led to satisfactory designations, the Provincial Government pointed out during the mission that it could not envisage any major change in policy regarding the Universities Act.
The Committee is of the opinion that some independent machinery should be available, if necessary, to assist in the designation of "academic staff members" for the purpose of joining an academic staff association.
Machinery such as that referred to in the report of the representative of the Director-General could alleviate the complainant's fear of abuse of section 17(1)(d.1).
Recommendations of the Committee
128.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this part of the report and, in particular, to request the Government to take measures to repeal the provision in the Universities Act which empowers the employer body to determine the membership of academic staff associations.
The Committee also recommends that consideration be given to the possibility of introducing an independent system for the designation, where necessary, of academic staff members, either through third party arbitration or some form of informal machinery as referred to in the report of the representative of the Director-General.
C.
The Committee's conclusions on Case No. 1247/Alberta
129.
The Committee notes that this case concerns allegations that 1983 amendments (contained in Bill 44) to the Labour Relations Act and the Public Service Employee Relations Act of Alberta, on the one hand, restrict freedom of association by excluding numerous employees from bargaining units, and, on the other hand, interfere with the right of workers' organisations to organise their activities in full freedom by restricting the collective bargaining process and rendering the previously impartial arbitration system subject to government fiscal policy.
130.
First, the Committee notes that, although not referred to in the written complaint, section 93 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act which bans the right to strike of provincial government employees was brought to the attention of the study and information mission.
The Committee considers that an examination of this provision is important since it sets the background against which the formal allegations must be viewed.
The AUPE claims that the Government's main justifications for this total ban on provincial public service strikes is that the employees concerned were so closely linked to those providing essential services as to make it reasonable to treat them in the same way and that there is no alternative supply for these services.
AUPE made the point that section 93 does not apply to public servants employed by municipalities and school boards and it told the representative of the Director-General that there was no evidence of close links between essential and non-essential persons such that a strike by the latter would hinder the provision of essential services.
Nor was there any evidence that there was no alternative source of supply for the services provided by the employees affected.
131.
The Committee recalls that it has been called to examine the strike ban in a previous case submitted against the Government of Canada/Alberta [Case No. 893, most recently examined in the 204th Report, paras. 121 to 134, approved by the Governing Body at its 214th Session (November 1980).].
In that case the Committee recalled that the right to strike, recognised as deriving from Article 3 of the Convention, is an essential means by which workers may defend their occupational interests.
It also recalled that, if limitations on strike action are to be applied by legislation, a distinction should be made between publicly-owned undertakings which are genuinely essential, i.e. those which supply services whose interruption would endanger the life, personal safety or health of the whole or part of the population, and those which are not essential in the strict sense of the term.
The Governing Body, on the Committee's recommendation, drew the attention of the Government to this principle and suggested to the Government that it consider the possibility of introducing an amendment to the Public Service Employee Relations Act in order to confine the prohibition of strikes to services which are essential in the strict sense of the term.
In the present case, the Committee would again draw attention to its previous conclusions on section 93 of the Act.
132.
Linked to this question of restrictions on the right to strike is one of the specific written allegations, namely that an amendment contained in Bill 44 to section 117.1 of the Labour Relations Act prohibits the right to strike of all hospital employees.
The Committee notes that this broad exclusion covers kitchen help, janitors, gardeners, etc. but that the Government told the representative of the Director-General that only small groups were affected by section 117.1 and that this question was, in any event, being challenged in the Alberta Court of Appeal and the Canadian Supreme Court.
Given that this provision is not sufficiently specific as regards the important qualification of "essential employee", the Committee refers to the principle set out in the above paragraph concerning circumstances in which recourse to strike action may be prohibited.
It requests the Government to re-examine section 117.1 so as to confine the prohibition of strikes to services which are essential in the strict sense of the term.
133.
As regards the exclusion from the collective bargaining process of disbursement control officers, hearing officers and employees performing substantially similar duties, as well as employees in the Legislative Assembly Office, Auditor General's, Electoral Office and Ombudsman's Office (section 21(1)(g) and (h) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act), the Committee notes from the Government's written reply that the previous situation has not been altered, but has been "further refined".
It also notes from the information contained in the report of the representative of the Director-General that these amendments to section 21(1) were a legislative reversal of several decisions of the Public Service Employee Relations Board.
Moreover, during the study and information mission, the AUPE expressed concern over a 1985 amendment to section 21(1)(l) which allows exclusion "for any other reason".
Although disputes over subsection (1) exclusions may be referred to the Board for decision under section 21(2), the AUPE remained suspicious of the wide ambit of possible exclusions;
they stated that, in practice, over 400 employees had been denied access to the collective bargaining process by these amendments to section 21.
The Government, on the other hand, told the mission that only 260 employees had been affected, all being mainly involved in the managerial/personnel policy area.
134.
In the light of the voluminous information provided to the mission as to the non-managerial nature of some of these employees' tasks, the Committee would draw the Government's attention to the principle that only civil servants engaged in the administration of the State (i.e. employed in various capacities in government ministries or comparable bodies) and not other persons employed by the Government, by public undertakings or by independent public corporations, can be excluded from the guarantees of collective bargaining.
Under this criterion, the Committee cannot accept that all the public employees now listed in section 21(1) should be excluded from representation in the collective bargaining process.
It accordingly requests the Government to reconsider this section in the light of this principle.
135.
Although not referred to in the written complaint, much information was given to the mission on section 48(2) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act which limits the subject-matters which may be referred to arbitration.
According to the AUPE, although the Board may determine disputes as to whether certain items are non-arbitral, the unions have lost all confidence in the Board because of its recent decisions in this area which, the union claims, regard all matters as part of the managerial prerogative of the employer and thus not appropriate for arbitration.
Moreover, the AUPE claimed that the Board often delayed or prevented reference of whole bargaining disputes to arbitration.
The Committee takes note of the information on this question reflected in the report of the representative of the Director-General since it forms part of the background to the second main allegation in the present case, namely that Bill 44 has damaged, if not destroyed, the arbitration system.
More specifically, it is claimed by the union that the arbitration system has been weakened by the use of a procedural body (the Public Service Employee Relations Board) to screen issues before they reach arbitration.
The Committee also notes the examples that were given to the misson of matters that had been considered by the Board as not being appropriate for submission to arbitration (e.g. hours of work, certain leave periods, transfer, promotion, etc.).
The Committee has emphasised that restrictions on the right to strike in the public service or in essential services should be accompanied by adequate, impartial and speedy conciliation and arbitration in which the parties can take part at every stage and on which the awards, once made, are binding on both parties.
The Committee is of the view that the existing system, under which the Public Service Employee Relations Board can prevent the referral to arbitration of matters which have formed the basis of a dispute, is not fully in accordance with ILO principles and is one which has led to considerable tension between the parties and to a loss of confidence by the unions in the arbitration machinery.
136.
As regards the alleged interference in the arbitration process itself by the listing of factors - including government fiscal policies - to be taken into account by arbitrators in reaching awards (section 117.8 of the Labour Relations Act and section 55 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act), the Committee notes the Government's written reply that various factors are merely listed in the legislation without indications as to the importance which the arbitration boards should give them.
The Committee observes from the report of the representative of the Director-General that, in practice, arbitration boards were not giving overriding predominance to government fiscal policy and in some cases did not find it useful at all.
Nevertheless, the complainant still fears potential abuse.
It is this lack of confidence that obliges the Committee to recall again the principle that adequate, impartial and speedy conciliation and arbitration procedures should be available in the event of the right to strike being subject to limitations in the public or essential services.
137.
In the present case, it appears to the Committee that the independence of the arbitration boards set up to compensate public employees for the loss of their right to strike (being composed of a representative of each of the parties to the dispute plus a chairman jointly appointed by the representatives) is not called into question by the listing in legislation of factors to be taken into account.
138.
As regards the eight other amendments to the Labour Relations Act (one of which was copied in the Public Service Employee Relations Act) contained in Bill 44, the Committee notes from the report of the representative of the Director-General that many of these have not given rise to problems in practice and that some have not even been utilised.
In particular, the Committee sees no threat to freedom of association with the following sections:
- Section 1(w.1), introducing a new concept of "trade union organisation", was never adopted;
- Section 74(1), requiring a duly authorised representative for collective bargaining to be resident in Alberta, may cause minor inconvenience to the union but is in fact clearly intended to avoid delays in the final settlement and signing of agreements.
It does not fetter a trade union's right to seek assistance in bargaining from persons outside the province;
- Section 87, allowing only one Board-supervised strike or lock-out vote, restricts certain union tactics but does not prevent the polling of members to determine the position prior to calling for a vote;
- Section 49(1), requiring a 90-day moratorium before applying for a further certification order, again affects union tactics but was clearly intended to remove uncertainty as to a union's real strength in the bargaining unit and to avoid abuses of certification proceedings;
- Section 132, allowing application to the Board to determine successor rights, only regulates and expedites normal past practice and is not unreasonable;
- Section 102.2, empowering the recommendations of a Disputes Inquiry Board to be put to the employees concerned, may raise the question of the role of a union executive but does not deprive individual workers of their trade union rights.
139.
On the other hand, the Committee would express some concern over two other individual amendments to the Labour Relations Act:
- Sections 105 and 106, prohibiting the threat of an illegal strike, could impede the freedom of workers' organisations to organise their activities in full freedom and place trade union officials in some jeopardy, given the broad definition of "strike" in the Act.
The Government told the representative of the Director-General that section 105 had not been used and that it would be up to the Board to highlight any difficulties with its drafting if and when called to apply this provision.
The Committee considers that the uncertainty and imprecision of the definition of a "strike" could, as the representative of the Director-General suggested, lead to difficulties for trade unionists who take bona fide action that is subsequently found to be illegal.
The Committee would request the Government to take steps to clarify the situation in consultation with the unions and, if necessary, amend the provision accordingly.
- Section 117.94 (and section 92.2 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act), allowing the employer to suspend check-offs if an illegal strike takes place, have not been used.
The precise scope of the provision is, however, uncertain in the sense that it is not clear whether the suspension would apply to a whole bargaining unit or only to the illegal strikers.
Discussion should take place with the unions to clarify the manner in which the provision would be applied in practice.
The Committee's recommendations
140.
In these circumstances, the Committe recommends the Governing Body to approve this part of the report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee considers that the provisions of the Public Service Employee Relations Act and the Labour Relations Act prohibiting the right to strike of a broad range of provincial public servants and hospital workers go beyond acceptable limits on the right to strike recognised as deriving from Article  3 of Convention No. 87.
The Committee requests the Government to re-examine the provisions in question in order to confine the ban on strikes to services which are essential in the strict sense of the term.
(b)
As regards the broad range of public servants excluded from the collective bargaining process by section 21(1) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act, the Committee would draw the Government's attention to the principle that only civil servants engaged in the administration of the State may be so excluded.
It requests the Government to reconsider this section in the light of this principle.
(c)
Although the Committee does not consider that the listing of government fiscal policies as a factor to be considered by arbitrators calls into question the principles of freedom of association, it notes with some concern the power given to the Public Service Employee Relations Board (by section 48(2) of the relevant Act) to determine all matters in a collective dispute that may be referred to arbitration.
The Committee hopes that provisions such as these which have undermined the union's confidence in the arbitration system - which is meant to compensate the employees concerned for the lack of the right to strike - will be reconsidered in consultation with the parties and appropriate amendments made with a view to enabling arbitrators to examine all matters in dispute.
(d)
The Committee sees no threat to freedom of association with the various amendments to the Labour Relations Act contained in Bill 44 and outlined in paragraph 138 above, i.e. section 74(1), section 87, section 49(1), section 132 and section 102.2.
(e)
As regards sections 105 and 106 of the Labour Relations Act, as amended, prohibiting the threat of an illegal strike, the Committee requests the Government to take steps to clarify the precise scope of this provision in consultation with the union and, if necessary, amend the provision accordingly;
(f)
As regards section 117.94 of the Labour Relations Act and section 92(2) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act, concerning the suspension of check-off in the event of an illegal strike, the Committee recommends that discussion takes place with the unions in order to clarify the manner in which this provision would be applied in practice.
D.
The Committee's conclusions on Case No. 1260/Newfoundland
141.
The Committee notes all the detailed information supplied by the complainants in this case, the equally detailed information transmitted by the Government and the information contained in the report of the representative of the Director-General.
142.
In essence, the complainants had alleged that the Public Service (Collective Bargaining) Act - known as Bill 59 - which came into effect on 1 September 1983, was in contradiction with international standards on freedom of association in three particular areas:  the definition of "employee" contained in section 2(1)(i) of the Act;  the designation of "essential employees" (section 10) and the limitation on strike action (sections 10, 23 and 24).
143.
Before examining these individual aspects, the Committee would first note the information now at its disposal concerning the introduction of the legislation in question.
It can only express regret that, in spite of what appears to have been a good relationship between the complainant union and the Government, the process of consultation with the union prior to the introduction of Bill 59 was inadequate.
The attitudes of both parties were to an extent the reason for this inadequacy.
The Government, for its part, had what it considered to be solid reasons, based on experience, for amending existing legislation, whereas the union was opposed to such a course of action.
The result was an enactment which, in the opinion of the union, casts suspicion on the Government's real motives in proclaiming it.
It was also an enactment which, had proper consultations taken place, may well have taken a different form and thereby avoided the tension and suspicion that obviously exists between the union and the Government.
The Committee, in particular, notes that only two years after the enactment of Bill 59, important amendments were made in 1985.
144.
The Committee would emphasise the importance which should be attached to full and frank consultation taking place on any questions or proposed legislation affecting trade union rights.
It would express the firm hope that the Government and the union will, in the light of the problems which have emerged from the procedure used to introduce Bill 59, engage in systematic and genuine discussions and negotiations with a view to resolving the problems that have arisen in the present case.
145.
As regards section 2(1)(i)(xii) of Bill 59 (definition of "employee"), the union's principal concern was the exclusion from the definition of persons employed in an employment opportunity programme administered and financed by the Provincial Government, and/or financed by the federal Government.
According to the union, not only did the provisions prevent such persons from joining a union, but the presence of this non-unionised labour in workplaces where the union had members, constituted an obstacle to collective bargaining and a threat to union effectiveness in the event, for example, of a strike.
146.
On this question, the Committee notes that there seemed to be a considerable amount of misunderstanding between the parties as to the precise number of persons covered by this subsection.
Whatever the case, the Committee cannot accept that persons engaged in an employment opportunity programme should be excluded from the right to belong to a trade union of their choice.
The Committee considers that the extension of the right to organise of these persons would not necessarily interfere with the proper functioning of the programme and that, in addition, it would diminish the fear of the union that unionised workers might be replaced by workers engaged under the programme.
147.
A further exclusion from the definition of "employee" is the category of workers who advises the employer in relation to the development or administration of policies or programmes (section 2(1)(i)(xv).
The Committee notes that the Labour Relations Board, tripartite in character, appears in the past to have exercised its powers fairly restrictively in deciding exclusions from the bargaining unit.
It considers that this subsection is not contrary to the principles of freedom of association.
148.
In view of the problems and the climate of suspicion to which the above provisions in Bill 59 have given rise, the Committee would urge the Government to reconsider the question of exclusions in full consultation with the union.
149.
The Committee notes that the right to strike is available to public service employees in Newfoundland subject to a number of limitations concerning, in particular, employees deemed to be essential.
Essential employees are defined in the principal Act as "employees whose duties consist in whole or in part of duties, the performance of which at any particular time or during any specified period of time is, or may be, necessary for the health, safety or security of the public" (section 10.1).
150.
In this connection, the Committee would, in the first place, recall that it has accepted that the right to strike may be limited or prohibited as regards public servants acting in their capacity as agents of the public authority or engaged in services whose interruption would endanger the life, personal safety or health of the whole or part of the propulation.
Such limitations or prohibitions should, however be offset by adequate, impartial and speedy conciliation and arbitration procedures.
In addition, the Committee observes that the 1985 amendments to the legislation exclude a substantial number of bargaining units from the application of section 10 of the Act.
The Government had also agreed with the union in writing that no essential services would be sought in some ten bargaining units.
151.
The problem in Newfoundland is that, although strikes can take place even in services such as health-care institutions, the strike may be rendered ineffectual as a result of the procedure for the designation of a certain number of "essential workers".
In addition, recourse to arbitration may be impeded if the number so designated by the Labour Relations Board falls below 50 per cent of the employees involved.
In other words, it would seem in such circumstances that the limitations placed on unions to carry out an effective strike are not adequately compensated by unimpeded access to arbitration machinery.
152.
The Committee considers that, while the method of designating essential employees is not inconsistent with the principles of freedom of association, the Government should nevertheless review the relevant provision in such a manner as to facilitate access to independent arbitration in the event of a dispute.
153.
Further amendments introduced to the principal Act by Bill 59 affecting the right to strike were also criticised by the union.
Section 2 of Bill 59 repealed and substituted section 10 of the principal Act in such a manner as to prevent a bargaining agent from taking a strike vote or going on strike until agreement has been reached on or the Board has determined the number of essential employees in the unit concerned.
Moreover, amendments to section 23 and 24 of the Act made it necessary not only to give seven days' notice of a strike but also to indicate the date on which the strike would start.
If the strike did not start on the date specified in the notice, no strike could take place for one month, and then only if a further seven days' notice was given with a further proposed date on which the strike would commence.
These amendments also prevented strikes on a rotating basis in health service institutions.
154.
As regards these amendments and the allegations that were made, the Committee does not consider the modalities that they impose to be an undue hindrance on unions in the exercise of their right to strike and thereby going beyond what is acceptable under international standards and principles on freedom of association.
The Committee also notes, in particular, that the further amendments introduced in July 1985, the one-month period referred to above, now only applies to the hospital sector.
The Committee, however, notes from the report of the representative of the Director-General that these limitations are seen by the unions as an interference by the Government in the determination of strike tactics and, in particular, that the notice requirement could be used to delay strikes by last-minute bargaining.
The Committee observes that there is no evidence that these fears are justified, particularly in view of the Government's statement that the parties could always agree to extend the seven-day notice period by one day if necessary.
This is yet another matter which the Committee considers could be jointly discussed between the parties with a view to removing the doubts and suspicions that remain as to the manner in which the legislation will be applied.
The Committee's recommendations
155.
The Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this part of the report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee emphasises the importance which should be attached to full and frank consultations taking place with the trade unions on any questions or proposed legislation affecting trade union rights;
it expresses regret that consultation with the complainant union prior to the enactment of Bill 59 was inadequate.
(b)
The Committee considers that persons engaged in employment opportunity programmes should not be excluded from the right to belong to a union of their choice;
it urges the Government to reconsider the question of the exclusion of this category in full consultation with the union.
(c)
The Committe emphasises that limitations on strike action in the public service or in essential services should be compensated by adequate, impartial and speedy conciliation and arbitration procedures in which the parties can take part at every stage and in which the awards should, in all cases, be binding on both parties.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to review the provisions of the legislation concerning the designation of essential employees in order to facilitate access to independent arbitration in the event of a dispute.
(e)
The Committee does not consider the modalities for strike action imposed by sections 23 and 24 of Bill 59, as amended, to be inconsistent with the principles of freedom of association.
(f)
The Committee expresses the firm hope that the Government and the union will, in the light of the problems which have emerged from the enactment of Bill 59, engage in systematic and genuine discussions and negotiations with a view to resolving the problems that remain concerning the practical application of this legislation.
ANNEX
REPORT ON A STUDY AND INFORMATION MISSION TO CANADA BY SIR JOHN WOOD, CBE, LLM, REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE, CONCERNING THE FOLLOWING CASES BEFORE THE GOVERNING BODY COMMITTEE ON FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION:  ONTARIO (CASE NO. 1172), ALBERTA (CASES NOS. 1234 AND 1247) AND NEWFOUNDLAND (CASE NO. 1260)
Table of contents
Paragraphs
I.
Introduction
 1-7
Paragraphs
II.
General remarks
 8-21
(a)
Economic and political pressures
 9-10
(b)
Public sector
 11-13
(c)
Collective bargaining machinery
 14-15
(d)
Legislation
 16-21
III.
Case of Alberta - No. 1247
 22-84
A.
Introduction
 22
B.
The issues
 23
(i)
Exclusion of certain employees from 				  collective bargaining
 24-25
(ii)
The arbitration system
 26-28
(iii)
Other issues
 29-45

C.
Information obtained during the mission
 46-75
(a)
Collective bargaining and arbitration
 48-56
(b)
Excluded employees
 57-58
(c)
The right to strike
 59-67
(d)
Other issues
 68-75
D.
Concluding remarks
 76
Collective bargaining and arbitration
 77-78
Individual items
 79-80
General considerations
 81-84
IV.
Case of Alberta - No. 1234
 85-96
A.
Introduction
 85
B.
The issues
 86-92
C.
Information obtained during the mission
 93-94
D.
Concluding remarks
 95-96
V.
Case of Ontario - No. 1172
 97-157
A.
Introduction
 97
B.
The issues
 98-119
C.
Information obtained during the mission
 120-143
D.
Concluding remarks
 144-157
Paragraphs
VI.
Case of Newfoundland - No. 1260
 158-218
A.
Introduction
 158
B.
The issues
 159-160
(i)
Definition of "employee"
 161-165
(ii)
Designation of "essential" employees
... 166-173
(iii)
Limitations on strike action
 174-177

C.
Information obtained during the mission
 178-179
(a)
Consultations
 180-181
(b)
Definition of employee
 182-185
(c)
Questions concerning the right to strike
. 186-208
D.
Concluding remarks
 209-218
VII.
Final remarks
 219-232
1.
Inflation control
 222-223
2.
Consultation
 224-225
3.
Public servants - bargaining and the right 		  to strike
 226
(a)
Collective bargaining
 227-228
(b)
Independent dispute resolution
 229-232
Page
ANNEX
 113
I.
Introduction
1.
The Governing Body Committee on Freedom of Association, at its meeting in November 1984, decided to postpone its examination of the cases concerning Ontario, Alberta and Newfoundland since it was of the view that, before reaching conclusions in these cases, it would be necessary to obtain additional information, particularly through a study and information mission, which could assist in clarifying aspects of the laws and practices involved.
The Committee accordingly requested the Government to indicate its consent to such a procedure.
2.
In a letter dated 1 February 1985 the Government indicated that, after consultation with the various provincial governments concerned, it had no objection to such a mission taking place.
3.
The Committee explained that the study and information mission would take place within the context of its examination of the cases.
It emphasised that its proposal for such a mission stemmed from a desire on its part to reach conclusions in as full a knowledge and understanding as possible of the complex issues involved.
It said that it was convinced that its work would be greatly facilitated by an on-the-spot appreciation of the day-to-day practical operation, in local conditions, of the legislation that was the subject of the complaints.
4.
Arrangements were accordingly made for a study and information mission to take place in Canada - in particular, the provinces of Ontario, Alberta and Newfoundland - from 12 to 25 September 1985.
The Director-General of the ILO appointed me as his representative to carry out the mission, and I was accompanied, during the mission, by Mr. William R. Simpson, Chief of the Freedom of Association Branch of the International Labour Standards Department, and Mrs. Jane Hodges, an official of the Freedom of Association Branch.
5.
Through the efficient services of the officials of the Canadian Ministry of Labour responsible for these matters, and the equally efficient services of the officials of the Canadian Labour Congress, arrangements were made to establish a programme of meetings with representatives of the federal Government and those of the provincial governments involved and with the various national and provincial unions who had been involved in the submission of the complaints (for a detailed list of the persons involved, see Annex).
It is also thanks to the facilities that were extended to me by the governments and unions of the provinces of Ontario, Alberta and Newfoundland that I was able to carry out successfully the mandate that had been entrusted to me.
6.
Prior to my departure to Canada I had had the opportunity to examine the complaints that had been presented in these cases, the various replies of the respective governments and the very voluminous documentation and legislative texts which had accompanied the many communications addressed to the ILO.
In preparing this report I found it appropriate in the first place, to describe in some detail the main issues raised by the complainants in their written allegations as well as the respective goverments' arguments in rebuttal of those allegations.
The information which I was able to collect during the mission concerning these matters is then described.
I have attempted thus to provide the Committee on Freedom of Association with a report that gives as complete a picture as possible of the situation from the time the complaints were presented until the present time.
I am hopeful that, in presenting my report in this manner, I have been successful in facilitating the work of the Committee in reaching its conclusions in these cases.
7.
I would emphasise that it was at no time my intention or desire - nor indeed was it part of my mandate - to formulate any conclusions on the various issues that I was called upon to examine.
That responsibility rests exclusively with the Committee on Freedom of Association itself.
I did, however, carry out this mission having in mind the international standards and principles concerning freedom of association, the application of which had been brought into question by the complainant organisations and I have not hesitated in this report to set forth certain personal opinions or impressions that I was able to form regarding possible breaches of international obligations or regarding any remedial steps that might be taken if ILO standards and principles did not seem to be fully applied.
In so doing, my intention was not to prejudge the conclusions of the Committee, which will no doubt attach to these opinions or impressions the weight which it considers appropriate and correct.
II.
General remarks
8.
It is not necessary for me to emphasise that the individual complaints arise in three provinces of a federal State.
The structure and complexities of such a constitutional arrangement will be well known to the Committee.
Although each issue has to be assessed in the confines of the individual provincial context it is instructive to note that the problems have some common aspects.
This is well known to the parties.
Indeed, on the trade union side the influence of trade union centres inevitably leads to attention being given to the general similarities of the issues.
It may be worth while to draw attention to a few of these general points.
The purpose is not to divert attention from the duty to treat each case indpendently but to illustrate more clearly the underlying problems.
(a)
Economic and political pressures
9.
The legislation which lies at the heart of most of the complaints represents an attempt by the government concerned to tackle perceived economic problems.
These problems have provoked a political response which in turn lends shape to the objects and scope of the consequent legislation.
This is very clearly the case with Bill 44 in Alberta and Bill 179 in Ontario.
Bill 59 in Newfoundland is less obviously concerned with economic problems but the steps taken appear to flow, however indirectly, from such considerations.
10.
There is, of course, a lively debate as to the depth, even as to the existence, of economic problems.
Whatever view is taken on this it is plain that the governments concerned were clear that the economic problems demanded urgent attention usually described as an attack on inflation.
It is the impact of these legislative steps on the implementation of ILO principles such as those enshrined in Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 that lies at the core of these complaints.
The debate on the validity of economic judgements lies elsewhere.
(b)
Public sector
11.
The complaints are raised by public service trade unions and concern the impact of legislative measures on the collective bargaining arrangements in the public sector.
One factor in the minds of the complainants is that there is a lack of even handedness in the treatment of the public as opposed to the private sector.
Such comparisons are not always easy to make and anyway lie outside the concern of the Committee.
None the less it is a feeling that has to be noted.
12.
There is a crucial difficulty which is very obvious.
Collective bargaining involves the concept of two parties, the employer and the trade union, settling their mutual concern by discussion and negotiation.
Where the employer is the government there is an added difficulty.
The Government has the wider task of managing the economy and this will in particular often involve the task of seeking to influence the level of settlements in collective bargaining by fiscal and economic argument.
It is extremely difficult for the Government to separate the two roles so as to equate bargaining in the public sector with that in the private sector.
13.
The usual way in which this separation is attempted is by the establishment of a sound set of bargaining structures in the public sector.
These can then operate in the normal way and the wider concerns of government, which need not necessarily be the same in respect of public as opposed to private employment but generally will be, can be imposed from outside the collective bargaining machinery, for example by legislation.
(c)
Collective bargaining machinery
14.
It is difficult and dangerous to generalise about the structure of collective bargaining which is constructed separately by each province, as well as by the federal Government.
There are obviously so many variations that cannot be properly assessed in a short study.
Consideration of the formal statutory-based machinery does not necessarily give an accurate picture of what actually happens in practice.
It is even more difficult to assess the ability of structures to meet pressures which will inevitably be encountered as a result of, for example, a recession or growth of unemployment.
15.
Collective bargaining in Canada has been established at both the national and provincial level since the 1960s, so does not have a long history.
Three differing aspects of the employer-employee relationship can be distinguished.
Consultation is the process most difficult to assess since it will often be to a large extent informal.
It follows that a study of the processes laid down may fail to indicate the level of consultations in practice.
Bargaining itself is likely to follow fairly closely the rules laid down in the legislation setting it up and the practices developed over the years by agreement between the parties.
Finally, and most elusive, it is hard to describe the impact of the power to legislate.
The use of legislation of course lies to the hands of one of the parties, the employer.
The various ways in which it is used raise difficulties and appear to lead to possible misunderstanding and bad feeling.
(d)
Legislation
16.
The complaints before the Committee arise from specific pieces of legislation and their interpretation and application in practice.
The next part of this report will take the form of a more detailed examination of the specific issues raised against aspects of Bill 59 in Newfoundland, Bill 44 in Alberta and Bill 179 in Ontario.
17.
At this stage it is necessary to refer to a more general point.
It seems important to distinguish the objects of government legislation and its impact.
In the context of this study it has been apparent that two features of legislation should be given careful attention.
18.
The scope of legislation varies.
It may be permanent or temporary.
It may affect the employment generally or apply to specific bargaining relationships.
Its genesis may be the regulation of the economy on the one hand or the control of the structure of bargaining procedures on the other.
Often the two strands will be interwined and the purposes of the legislation difficult to separate.
19.
It appears, secondly, that it is possible to intervene more directly in the collective bargaining process.
Steps can be taken to affect the outcome of a particular bargain by recourse to one form of the legislative processes.
Whereas the process alluded to in the last paragraph may be regarded as strategic intervention, what is being described here is more in the nature of tactical.
20.
The standards secured by the Committee on Freedom of Association apply, of course, with equal rigour to action, whatever its character.
Viewed from the standpoint of trade unions concerned, it may be difficult to appreciate these distinctions since all actions of the type that leads to a complaint is obviously notable for its perceived deleterious effect.
The concerns that this Committee have shown in the past, however, indicate that the distinctions have a bearing on ILO deliberations.
Emergency legislation even handedly applied to collective bargaining overall to meet a perceived economic crisis is of a markedly different character to legislation aimed at a particular section of employment or individual collective bargaining process.
Here the process of collective bargaining, it must be stressed, covers the totality of the steps available, including, it is important to stresss, any access given to independent arbitration.
21.
An attempt will be made in the next section to assist the Committee with indications formulated with these analytical distinctions in mind.
III.
Case of Alberta - No. 1247
A.
Introduction
22.
In this case the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) presented a complaint of infringements of trade union rights in a communication dated 1 November 1983.
The complaint was presented on behalf of the Alberta Union of Provincial Employees (AUPE), a component of the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE) which is the CLC's second largest affiliate.
The Government transmitted its observations in a communication dated 3 May 1984.
B.
The issues
23.
In its letter of 1 November 1983 the CLC alleged that new legislation in Alberta violated Conventions Nos. 87, 98 and 151.
On 1 June 1983, an Act to amend various pieces of labour legislation (the Labour Statutes Amendment Act (known as Bill 44)) had been proclaimed.
According to the CLC, Bill 44 was aimed at attacking in particular public sector workers in Alberta.
One amendment denied the right to strike of thousands of non-essential hospital workers, and another destroyed any degree of impartiality in the arbitration system which had been intended to compensate public sector workers for the loss of their right to strike.
(i)
Exclusion of certain employees 	from collective bargaining
24.
The complainant referred specifically to new section 21(1) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act which reads as follows:
A person employed by an employer in a position classified under the Public Service Act as a budget officer, a systems analyst, an auditor, a disbursement control officer or a hearing officer who hears matters under the Summary Convictions Act, or performing for an employer substantially similar duties to a person employed in any of those positions, [and] in any of the following: the Legislative Assembly Office, the Office of the Auditor General, the Office of the Chief Electoral Officer, or the Office of the Ombudsman or who in the opinion of the [Public Service Employee Relations] Board should not be included in a collective bargaining unit by reason of the duties and responsibilities he has to his employer or for any other reason shall not be included in a bargaining unit or in any other unit for collective bargaining.
According to the complainant, this amendment had reversed a series of decisions of the Public Service Employee Relations Board (one of which was unsuccessfully challenged by the Government before the courts) to the effect that the Government could not legitimately exclude certain groups of employees from the right to engage in collective bargaining and be represented by a trade union.
25.
On this point the Government, in its communication of 3 May 1984, explained that the legislative amendments with respect to section 21(g) and (h) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act did not represent a significant change in the policies originally contained in those subsections; the exclusion of managerial and confidential employees, those involved in the implementation of personnel-related programmes, those involved in supporting the collective bargaining function, and those involved in the operations of the Government financial control system, activities of the Ombudsman, the courts and the Legislature itself had not been altered, but further refined to reflect continuing alterations in the structure of Government and the nature of employment in these cases.
(ii)
The arbitration system
26.
The complainant stated that the amendments to section 117.8 of the Labour Relations Act and section 55 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act contained in Bill 44 showed the Government's lack of faith in the impartial arbitrators who determine the wages and working conditions of many public sector employees in Alberta in recent months.
According to the complainant, rather than reassess the adequacy of cases presented to the arbitrators by government representatives and rather than take direct political responsibility for the imposition of wage controls, the Government had fettered the discretion of arbitrators and imposed an informal system of controls.
The amendments, which were identical, read as follows:
To ensure that wages and benefits are fair and reasonable to the employees and employer and are in the best interest of the public, the arbitration board (a) shall consider, for the period with respect to which the award will apply, the following:  wages and benefits in private and public and unionised and non-unionised employment;  the continuity and stability of private and public employment including employment levels and incidences of lay-offs, incidences of employment at less than normal working hours, and opportunity for employment;  any fiscal policies that may be declared from time to time in writing by the Provincial Treasurer for the purposes of this Act;  and (b) may consider, for the period with respect to which the award will apply, the following:  the terms and conditions of employment in similar occupations outside the employer's employment taking into account any geographic, industrial or other variations that the board considers relevant;  the need to maintain appropriate relationships in terms of conditions of employment between different classification levels within an occupation and between occupations in the employer's employment;  the need to establish terms and conditions of employment that are fair and reasonable in relation to the qualifications required, the work performed, the responsibility assumed and the nature of the services rendered;  any other factor that it considers relevant to the matter in dispute.
27.
According to the complainant, the foregoing provision required that an arbitrator take into account government fiscal policy and thereby sought to impose a system of informal wage restraint.
The complainant recalled that in many cases dealing with the rights of employees in the civil service and in essential services where the right to strike has been withdrawn and a system of arbitration substituted, the Committee on Freedom of Association had stressed the importance of impartiality.
The complainant claimed that it was dishonourable for the Government to withdraw the right to strike in these sectors and then impose a system of binding arbitration which was not even apparently impartial.
28.
To the allegation that section 117.8 of the Labour Relations Act and section 55 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act unreasonably restricted the freedom of arbitration boards and in so doing amounted to a disguised form of wage controls, the Government had replied that amendments concerning the nature of factors to be considered by a board did not, as alleged, impose restrictions.
The criteria considered relevant to the decisions were merely listed, including wages and benefits elsewhere in the provincial labour market and the fiscal policies of the Government.
The Government stated that the legislation did not stipulate how consideration of these factors was to be employed in the decision-making process.
The shifting relevancy of criteria over time was recognised to the extent that "any other factor" might be considered, and given whatever weight was deemed appropriate.
The comprehensive result of all listed factors was to give unfettered discretion to a board as to the weight it would assign to any particular criterion.
According to the Government, the factors listed were evidentiary rather than substantive in nature.
(iii)
Other issues
29.
The complainant further alleged that many of the amendments contained in Bill 44 were designed to undermine the bargaining authority of trade unions and thereby to impair free collective bargaining.
It cited in particular section 74(1) of the Labour Relations Act which required that every trade union appoint only persons residing in Alberta with authority to bargaining collectively, conclude and sign a collective agreement.
That section reads as follows:
On the service of a notice to commence collective bargaining by or on an employer or trade union, the employer or trade union shall appoint a person resident in Alberta with authority to bargain collectively, to conclude a collective agreement, and to sign a collective agreement on its behalf.
According to the complainant this requirement would seriously impair the operation of those small local unions which relied on out-of-province business agents associated with the national or international federations to conduct collective bargaining.
30.
In response to this allegation the Government pointed out that section 74 of the Labour Relations Act had been amended to require the parties to collective bargaining to "appoint a person resident in Alberta".
The Government explained that where trade union locals were part of a national labour organisation, accessibility to someone with authority to sign and conclude a collective agreement had been a problem in the past.
Under the amendments to section 74, a small local union might still utilise out-of-province business agents associated with a national or international network as part of the bargaining committee and to act as a principal spokesman, but someone resident in the province must have authority for the purpose of facilitating the conduct of bargaining, including the conclusion of a collective agreement.
31.
The complainant referred to section 87 of the Labour Relations Act which provided that only one strike or lock-out vote might be taken with respect to a dispute.
This section reads as follows:
During the open period, a bargaining agent may apply to the board to supervise a strike vote or an employers' organisation may apply to the board to supervise a lock-out vote.
Only one strike or lock-out vote may take place with respect to a dispute.
According to the complainant this provision would prevent unions and employers' associations from canvassing the opinions of their membership as to whether a strike or lock-out should take place in any given set of circumstances;
the pro-strike or pro-lock-out vote would become a mere formality to be obtained at the commencement of collective bargaining.
The complainant stated there was no sound reason why the members of a bargaining unit should not be free to change their mind as to whether to strike as circumstances changed.
32.
In relation to section 87 of the Labour Relations Act, the Government stated that a strike or lock-out was the commencement of the economic contest and therefore such votes were supervised by the Labour Relations Board of Alberta.
The changes to section 87 did not prohibit a union from conducting its own vote or canvassing the opinion of its membership as to whether a strike should take place in any given set of circumstances.
Such a vote, conducted by the union, was part of the internal administration of the trade union and accordingly the provision did not interfere with a private vote within the union.
The Government explained that such a vote or canvassing was not in substitution of a vote supervised by the Labour Relations Board which is a precondition for a lawful strike.
Moreover, continued the Government, if the vote carried whether for strike or lock-out, then one party or the other had chosen the economic forum as the means of resolving the dispute.
The policy as represented by this provision was that the members were free to strike, but should do so only when that appeared the only means of resolving the dispute.
The alternative would be to open the door to a series of strike votes.
33.
According to the complainant, section 102.2(2) of the Labour Relations Act as amended by Bill 44 empowered the Minister of Labour to require that the members of a bargaining unit affected by the recommendations of a Disputes Inquiry Board vote whether or not to accept the recommendations.
This section reads as follows:
Unless a party to the dispute notifies the [Labour Relations] Board of its acceptance of the recommendations of the disputes inquiry board within ten days after receiving a copy of the recommendations from the Minister, the [Labour Relations] Board shall supervise a vote on the acceptance or rejection of the recommendations by the employees or employers affected by the dispute who are represented by that party.
According to the complainant this power amounted to unwarranted interference in the internal affairs of a trade union which had the right and responsibility to canvass its own members as to the acceptability of any particular settlement proposal;
it believed that the conduct of labour relations ought to be left to the parties and not to the Minister of Labour.
34.
With regard to section 102.2(2) the Government stated that the amendments to this section were aimed at recent situations in which a trade union had refused to resolve a dispute notwithstanding that a majority of employees in the unit had wished the dispute to be resolved under certain conditions.
According to the Government, this provision ensured that the wishes of the majority in the unit might be expressed on the question of acceptance of a board award.
35.
The complainant alleged that sections 105 and 106 of the Labour Relations Act created a new and dangerous offence by prohibiting persons acting on behalf of trade unions or employers from threatening a strike or lock-out in circumstances where a strike or lock-out would not be permitted under the Act.
The sections read as follows:
Section 105(3).
No employee, bargaining agent, or person acting on behalf of a bargaining agent shall threaten to strike or to cause a strike unless the strike is permitted by this Act.
Section 106(3).
No employer shall threaten to lock-out unless the lock-out is permitted by this Act.
The complainant pointed out that the question of whether a strike or lock-out was illegal was a complicated one and the parties should not therefore be prohibited from talking about it.
The complainant questioned whether it was the Government's intention to penalise employees under section 105 who, for example, refused to perform work which they believed to be unsafe.
36.
With regard to the inclusion of "threats" to strike or lock-out in sections 105 and 106 of the Labour Relations Act, the Government stated that a strike or lock-out was not permitted where the preconditions as set out in the Act had not been satisfied.
However, if a strike or lock-out with its serious consequences upon employees and employers might only occur when certain conditions had been satisfied then neither the trade union, employees or persons acting on behalf of the trade union or the employer should be able to threaten an illegal act to achieve other purposes, such as threatening a strike to force an alteration of a collective agreement during its term against the will of the other party.
In any case, the Government pointed out that these provisions were being reconsidered primarily because of evidentiary difficulties.
The Government added that it was not the intention of this section to penalise workers who refused to perform work which they believed was unsafe.
Questions of unsafe work were fully addressed in legislation concerning health and safety.
According to the Government, the essential element of a strike was that it was a concerted refusal by two or more employees aimed at compelling an employer to accept terms and conditions of employment;
the Labour Relations Board had never interpreted a strike to include a refusal to work when conditions were unsafe.
37.
The complainant alleged that several provisions in Bill 44 were designed to make it more difficult for trade unions to obtain and maintain certificates enabling them to represent workers in collective bargaining.
It refered in particular to section 49(1) of the Labour Relations Act which reads as follows:
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, if an application for certification as a bargaining agent, revocation of the certification of a bargaining agent, a declaration that a bargaining agent is no longer entitled to bargain collectively, registration of employers' organisation or cancellation of registration of an employers' organisation, has been refused by the Board or withdrawn by the applicant, the applicant shall not, without the consent of the Board, make the same or substantially the same application until after the expiration of 90 days from the date of the withdrawal or refusal.
According to the complainant this section would prevent trade unions from withdrawing applications for certification when they realised that there was no majority support and resubmitting the application when a majority had been obtained.
The only effect of this amendment would be to make organisation campaigns more difficult and accordingly more expensive.
38.
The Government explained that amendments to section 49 of the Labour Relations Act required an applicant for certification to obtain board permission to reapply before the expiry of 90 days from the date of withdrawal or refusal of a previous application.
It stated that these amendments had been implemented in recognition of the administrative effects on the employer, employees and the Labour Relations Board itself where repeated failed applications are made.
39.
The complainant further stated that before the introduction of section 132 of the Labour Relations Act, a trade union's certificate remained in full force notwithstanding the sale or disposition of the business of an employer and that the previous situation had aimed at preventing the employer from selling or transferring his business to an allied operator in order to get rid of a certified trade union.
According to the complainant, the new situation (whereby the Labour Relations Board may, upon application by any employer, trade union or person affected, determine what rights, privileges and duties have been acquired or retained) provided an opportunity to successor employers to frustrate the desires of employees who might wish to continue being represented in collective bargaining by their previously certified bargaining agents.
40.
As regards the amendments to section 132, the Government stated that these were designed to prevent incongruous results.
Before the introduction of these changes, if the Labour Relations Board had concluded that there had been a sale, lease or transfer of a business or part of it, then automatically the certificate and the collective agreement to which the vendor was party applied to the purchaser.
The Government stated that the intention of the provision as amended remained to that effect;
however if a question arose under section 132, the Labour Relations Board might declare the certificates, collective agreement or proceedings to be binding on the purchaser in contrast to the former provision where the Board was required to so declare.
The new provision allowed for conflicts to be resolved by the Labour Relations Board by allowing the Board to amend the certificate or collective agreement in question or even revoke it.
The Government stressed that the Board had only been given power permissibly to resolve conflicts.
41.
The complainant further alleged that new section 1(w.1) of the Labour Statutes Amendment Act, creating the concept of a "trade union organisation", would create a situation in which the national or provincial organisation which had authority to bargain on behalf of local unions would be subjected to the penalties prescribed in the Act for trade unions.
The Government pointed out that the amendments proposed in section 1(w.1) had never been adopted and did not form part of the Labour Relations Act.
42.
The complainant referred to section 117.94 of the Labour Relations Act - which was identical to new section 92.2 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act - as the most pernicious example of anti-union legislation in Bill 44.
According to the complainant, the clear intention of this section was to cripple a union financially if its members went on a strike.
The section reads as follows:
(1)
If a strike of employees to which this Division applies [i.e. public employees who are prohibited from striking] commences, the employer, notwithstanding any collective agreement or any other provision of this Act, may serve the bargaining agent that represents those employees with a notice of intention to suspend the deduction and remittance of union dues, assessments and other fees payable to the bargaining agent.
(2)
A notice of intention shall specify the bargaining unit or part of the bargaining unit with respect to which the employer intends to suspend the deduction and remittance of union dues or other fees and a time period of not less than one month and not more than six months with respect to which the employer intends the suspension to be in effect.
(3)
A bargaining agent affected by the notice may apply to the board within 72 hours of service ... for a determination as to whether or not a strike has occurred.
43.
As regards section 117.94 of the Labour Relations Act and section 92.2 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act as amended by Bill 44, the Government stated that, unless the union committed an illegal act, the forwarding of union dues continued.
It added that, if the employer served notice that union dues were to be withheld, an expeditious and inexpensive appeal to the appropriate quasi-judicial Board was available and the Board would decide whether a break in collection and remittance should occur based on evidence that the union had or had not contravened the Act in question and illegally interrupted the employer's operations.
Adequate and appropriate appeal provisions existed to protect the interests of all parties.
44.
With regard to the withdrawal of the right to strike from hospital workers contained in section 117.1 of the Labour Relations Act, the complainant alleged that all hospital workers, including kitchen help, janitors, gardeners, registered nurses, health service technicians and clerical staff, were covered by this new section.
45.
The Government stated its position as regards the international standards relevant to the question, namely that freedom to associate was protected but specific association objectives and dispute resolution mechanisms were not.
It pointed out that the evolutionary nature of labour relations precluded commitment to a single universal approach to dispute resolution.
The objects of association within the context of labour relations, principally the protection of the interests of the workers, could be and were achieved without utilisation of the strike mechanism.
According to the Government, public sector collective bargaining must be approached within the larger framework of the governing process itself of which it was but one part.
A number of extremely important characteristics had to be recognised in the design of the collective bargaining system intended to be compatible with it:
the governing process in Canada was one in which decisions were reached by compromise and response to pressures brought to bear;
those interests which influenced the distribution of scarce resources were involved in a political process and must therefore be subject to the contraints normally associated with such participation;
in order to maintain the essential and delicate balance within this process, particularly with respect to essential administrative decision-making outside the normal review and evaluation associated with the electoral process, no single interest could be allowed to place other interests at a disadvantage.
The Government also pointed out that while the nature of the work performed by public service employees was often unique in most ways, the unique nature of the employer remained constant, in that the Government was subject to scrutiny.
Lastly, the Government stated that continuance of the right to withhold services by health care workers would place these interests at an unacceptable advantage and priority over those whose legitimate health care needs must be met by the system, for which there was no acceptable alternative, and as such would compromise the decision-making process relating to the provision of health care.
This situation had been altered only to the extent that an alternative to the withdrawal of services had been provided and the Government considered that this was an effective compromise which would permit proper representation of employee interests within a framework that complied with international standards.
C.
Information obtained during the mission
46.
In the course of the mission I had the opportunity of discussing the various issues involved in this case;  first, in Ottawa, with representatives of the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC) and the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE), and secondly, in Edmonton, with representatives of the Alberta Union of Public Employees (AUPE) and its component divisions.
Discussions were also held with the Assistant Deputy Minister of Labour and other provincial government officials.
In addition to the oral submissions that were made by the parties, voluminous documentary evidence was communicated to me in support of the arguments put forward by them.
47.
From all these discussions it was clear that the three main issues causing concern to the unions as a result of the enactment of Bill 44, which amended both the Public Service Employee Relations Act of 1980 and the Labour Relations Act, were the curtailment of collective bargaining rights for public-sector employees and the manner in which the arbitration procedures functioned, the further restrictions that Bill 44 placed on the right to strike of public employees and the exclusion of certain employees from the bargaining unit.
Several other issues, which also formed part of the complaint, were also examined in detail and will be dealt with later.
(a)
Collective bargaining and arbitration
48.
The claim of the unions was that the introduction of Bill 44 had been a clear and deliberate attempt to place further restrictions on the collective bargaining rights of provincial government employees.
In addition, the result of Bill 44 had been to destroy any credibility in the fairness and impartiality of the arbitration system, the only dispute-settlement mechanism available to this category of workers.
49.
Much information was obtained concerning the manner in which collective bargaining takes place between the Alberta Union of Public Employees, as the certified bargaining agent covering 12 separate divisions of public employees (approximately 38,000 employees), and the Crown in the Right of Alberta, as employer.
Under section 50 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act, in the event of a dispute arising, if the the Public Service Employee Relations Board is satisfied that the parties to the dispute have failed to make reasonable efforts to conclude a collective agreement, the Board may direct the parties to continue collective bargaining.
Section 51(1)(c) of the Act permits the Board to establish an arbitration board if it is satisfied that not only are there additional items  which should be referred to arbitration but also that it is the appropriate time to refer the matter to an arbitration board.
50.
At the time the mission took place collective agreements had been concluded in respect of eight out of the 12 divisions of the AUPE;
the four groups in respect of which no agreement had been reached being nurses, economic staff, social workers and teachers.
51.
The chief negotiator for the AUPE explained that Bill 44 had been enacted following the discontent of the Government at the awards granted by 12 separate arbitration boards in 1983.
These arbitrations had been preceded by a decision of the Public Service Employee Relations Board that there had been a failure on the part of the employers to bargain in good faith.
The current round of negotiations, commenced in January 1984 for the biennium 1984-85, had taken place in the context of the new  atmosphere created by the enactment of Bill 44 and the employers demonstrated an aggressive attitude at the bargaining table.
The failure of negotiations led to a request being made in April 1984 by the union for arbitration but this was rejected by the Board.
In July 1984, following the failure of mediation, the Board referred the main, or master agreement, to arbitration.
52.
Evidence was also submitted concerning the negotiating process which the unions claimed was frustrating and time-consuming.
The Public Service Employee Relations Board often served to delay or prevent references to arbitration.
In one case involving some 14,000 administrative and clerical workers, negotiations had commenced in January 1984;
the Board had, on no fewer than three occasions, rejected an application for arbitration on the grounds that it was "untimely and inappropriate".
This was followed by an application to the court which, in March 1985, upheld the Board's discretionary power to establish an arbitration board and stated that the Board's decision in the present case was not "patently unreasonable".
It was only after the lapse of at least 18 months from the commencement of negotiations that arbitration was obtained and, as the unions pointed out, the question of retroactivity of wage increases was itself a matter of negotiation.
53.
More specifically, as regards the arbitration process, the unions expressed considerable concern over the practical application of section 48(2) of the Public Service Employee Relations Act which limits the subject-matters that may be referred for arbitration.
The Public Service Employee Relations Board has jurisdiction to determine whether any particular claim falls within the list of non-arbitral items set out in this provision.
In the view of the unions this provision conferred upon the employer the unilateral right to determine terms and conditions of employment.
They claimed that all matters covered by this provision should fall within the scope of bargaining and arbitration since they did not entirely concern questions of management prerogative.
54.
Examples of matters that had not been considered arbitral by virtue of section 48 included the right of an employer to contract out work of the bargaining unit, questions concerning hours of work and shift work, certain leave periods and the calculation of overtime (section 48(2a)); questions of job evaluation, creation of job descriptions, questions of equal pay for work of equal value (section 48(2b));  selection, transfer, promotion, training, the provision of training in the safer operation of equipment, etc. (section 48(2c)).
In a recent case (December 1984) the Public Service Employee Relations Board had determined that a union's proposal to protect the positions of laid-off employees by requiring an employer to give notice of intended lay-offs was non-arbitral because it limited employer discretion.
The unions, accordingly, claimed that these examples showed that the Board gave a broad interpretation of section 48(2) in order to protect the managerial prerogative of the employer.
55.
Furthermore, the unions claimed that, even where items in dispute were referred to arbitration, the discretion of arbitrators was curtailed by the requirement that they take certain matters into consideration.
These criteria are set out in section 55 of the Act, and in particular, oblige arbitrators to give special consideration to statements of government fiscal policy.
In the unions' view, these provisions were introduced in 1983 in response to the series of arbitration awards which the Government had criticised as being too generous.
Some recent statements of fiscal policy issued by the Government were made available to the mission.
According to the unions, arbitrators were  required to promote government fiscal policy and, accordingly, the results of arbitration were a reflection of that policy.
In other words, such control of arbitral decision-making meant that the Government was, in fact, legislating results for itself as employer.
Arbitrators were thus prevented from exercising the degree of independence that was necessary to constitute an adequate substitute for collective bargaining.
56.
In this connection, a number of recent arbitration awards were made available to the mission.
From these it was clear that the arbitration boards involved had given careful considerations to the provisions of section 55(a) and (b) and had explored at length the conflicting roles of government as the determiner of provincial labour fiscal policy, and as employer.
In some cases, the board had, in fact, not considered it necessary to take account of the optional provisions contained in section 55(b) of the Act.
In one case, in May 1984, the arbitration board had stated that it did not find the government fiscal policy useful since, inter alia, it did not prescribe the exact amount of the increase.
(b)
Excluded employees
57.
The mission also heard evidence concerning the exclusion, by virtue of section 21(1) of the Act, of certain categories of employees from the bargaining unit for the purpose of collective bargaining.
The recent amendments under Bill 44 had broadened the range of persons denied the right to engage in collective bargaining.
Some of these categories had previously enjoyed this right.
It was recalled that section 21 substantially provides that persons employed who have or exercise management responsibilites or duties or who are primarily engaged in the administration of personnel policies or pesonnel programmes, shall not be included in any bargaining unit.
58.
In the view of the unions, the exclusion of such employees was not justified and the amendment, under Bill 44, had removed the right to collectively bargain from a number of groups of employees who had been granted that right by the Public Service Employee Relations Board under the previous statute.
The Governmment had used its legislative authority to reverse a series of decisions of the Board.
For example, the Board, in one case, had held that employees in occupational health and safety programmes and organisational development programmes and activities were not within the scope of "personnel policies or programmes" defined in section 21(1)(b) of the Act.
The Board, in its decision, had stated that personnel, in the sense described, encompassed policies or programmes concerning the recruitment of candidates, the hiring, the appointment and promotion of employees, or the classification, evaluation, discipline or discharge of employees.
The unions submitted further examples of cases in which the amendments of Bill 44 denied the right to belong to a bargainging unit to groups of workers, or individual officers, to whom that right had been recognised by the Board.
According to the unions, over 400 persons had been denied the right to collective bargaining by the amendments to section 21.
(c)
The right to strike
59.
The mission also heard submissions from the unions concerning the overall denial of the right to strike imposed by section 93 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act on those employees to whom the Act applies.
According to the unions, the Government had sought to justify this denial by stating that, although all the employees concerned did not provide essential services, they were so closely linked to those providing essential services as to make it reasonable that they should be treated in the same way; that there was no alternative supply for these services;  and that these employees were in a special position to place more pressure on the Government than other citizens.
60.
The unions claimed that there was no evidence of close links between essential and non-essential persons and, more importantly, that the withdrawal of labour by non-essential persons would not adversely affect the provision of essential services.
Nor was there any evidence that there was no alternative source of supply for the services provided by the employees affected.
Moroever, the unions stated, the same rationale had not been applied in the private sector in cases where no alternative source of supply for many services was available.
61.
At meetings with representatives of the provincial Government of Alberta, the issues that had been brought to the attention of the ILO and discussed with the mission, were explained in detail.
The government representatives explained to the mission that the response by the private sector to the dramatic decline in the economy had been constructive, and the claims of the public-sector unions that they were being selected for special, unfavourable treatment were unique to that category of workers.
62.
As regards the collective bargaining process, the government representatives explained that either party had the right to veto matters that were suggested for reference to arbitration.
Those which the Public Service Employee Relations Board had excluded from those parts of the master agreement with AUPE in respect of which arbitration had been sought concerned exclusively management rights.
The Government conceded, however, that the definition of management rights was a complex question.
63.
In this connection, I suggested to the government representatives that the Public Service Employee Relations Board, by refusing to consider certain specific issues as arbitral, was itself arbitrating on these issues.
Where arbitration was fundamental in a non-strike situation, it seemed anomalous that the Board, which was a procedural body, should be seen itself to be acting as arbitrator on certain issues.
Such a procedure was certain to destroy the unions' faith and confidence in the Board.
I further indicated that it seemed that the Government's use of the legislative process to deal with collective bargaining had also led to a loss of confidence by unions in the bargaining system.
64.
As regards arbitration itself, the government representatives indicated that, from the limited experience that the Government had of arbitration of interest disputes, there had been no evidence of misuse of the provision (section 55 of the Act) requiring arbitrators to take account of provincial fiscal policy.
There was no way of knowing what attention arbitrators paid to the section, but, in any event, the fiscal policy provided wide scope for arbitrators.
Examples of government fiscal policy were given to the mission.
65.
On the question of exclusions under section 21(1) of the Act, as amended, the Government explained that 260 employees in all were affected by the amendment.
These were mainly involved in the personnel policy area and only about 12 in the field of safety and health had been excluded from the bargaining unit.
66.
Concerning the denial of the right to strike, I informed the Government generally that the Committee on Freedom of Association was likely to express some concern about the provisions in the legislation on this matter in the light of its stated principles.
The government representatives took note of this and informed me that certain issues concerning the right to strike for public employees were presently before the court.
67.
I also brought to the attention of the Government the question, also a concern of the unions, of the lack of prior consultation with the unions on legislation concerning matters affecting them or their members.
In response, the government representative informed me that any failure to consult on such matters would be caused by the emergency of the situation and not from any systematic policy not to consult.
Even on issues that were urgent, public hearings would take place in Parliament, but normally legislation was the result of lengthy and constructive discussions with any parties that would be affected.
(d)
Other issues
68.
During discusssions with the AUPE, I was informed that, although that organisation had initially feared that the use of experienced out-of-province negotiators might have been restricted by section 74(1), the provision as it stood was not a problem.
The provincial government representatives explained that this provision had been introduced solely to deal with the practical difficulties which had arisen in the past, when out-of-province negotiators had not been able to be contacted during negotiations or, even at the time of settlement, for signature of an agrement.
Given that there appeared to be no serious problem with section 74(1) in practice, I expressed my hope that the parties would be able to discuss its application if, in the future, any problems might arise in this respect.
69.
It was explained to the mission that section 87 of the Labour Relations Act (providing for only one strike or lock-out vote with respect to a dispute) had been introduced in reaction to a strike in 1982 by nurses at the Banff Mineral Springs Hospital during which one of the trade unions involved had disputed the results of a pro-strike vote.
The Government also pointed out that, under this provision, the unions could meet and discuss possible strike action as often as they wished, but could only apply for one strike vote supervised by the Labour Relations Board.
Both sides agreed that there appeared to be no problem with the present situation in practice.
70.
It was explained to the mission, in relation to section 102.2(2) (providing for a Labour Relations Board supervised vote on the acceptance by employees of a settlement in a dispute) that the Disputes Inquiry Board was a form of binding mediation set up to examine particular disputes.
The provision addressed the question as to whether union executives were free to accept awards or whether individual union members should decide this at a vote and it has not been used as yet.
71.
During discussions with the union representatives, it was made clear to the mission that the effect of section 105(3)'s introduction of an offence for the mere threat of illegal strike action had added to their fears as to the real purpose behind Bill 44.
They stressed that the danger of this provision was compounded by the fact that the strike action had been broadly defined in the legislation.
The Government, on the other hand, pointed out that there were many Labour Relations Board decisions which clarified the definition of strikes.
It also stressed that this provision stemmed from the principle of fair collective bargaining in that the threat of illegal action did not contribute to the resolution of a particular bargaining issue or negotiations in general.
I pointed out that "persons acting on behalf of the bargaining agent" were also covered by this broad provision.
The Government explained that section 105(3) had not been used and that it would be up to the Labour Relations Board, when faced with the application of this provision, to highlight any drafting difficulties regarding the position of union agents.
72.
As regards the allegation relating to section 49 (introducing a 90-day delay before the filing of further certification applications) of the Labour Relations Act, it was explained to the mission that, under the Labour Relations Act, the Labour Relations Board was empowered to grant a collective bargaining certificate in three sets of circumstances:  firstly, when satisfied that a majority of employees in the unit were paid-up union members having selected the trade union to be their bargaining agent;  or secondly, when satisfied that a majority of employees in the unit had applied for union membership and paid a fee (or "deposit") not longer than 90 days before the date of the application for certification, or thirdly, after conducting a vote.
Before the amendment only 30 days had applied to fee-paying employees.
The union representatives felt that this time extension was yet another example of the real intent of Bill 44.
The Government explained that section 49 was aimed at situations where there was not a constant organising drive by trade unions for the purposes of collective bargaining certification.
This amendment had been introduced to remove any uncertainty as to a union's real strength in the bargaining unit and to avoid the possible abuse of certification proceedings as, for example, a defence to organising drives by other unions in the same bargaining unit.
The Govenment pointed out that since this amendment there had been no evidence of its impact on a trade union's ability to organise and apply for certification.
Since a union's own constitution would set out the time limit for the lapse of fee-paying applicants' membership, any procedural problem that section 49 might raise for unions could possibly be avoided by simple amendment of their constitutions.
In addition, it was pointed out that the Labour Relations Board had the discretion to conduct a vote even if a majority (51 per cent) of employees in the bargaining unit had indicated its selection of a trade union as its bargaining agent.
73.
The union representatives told me that the amendment to section 132 concerning successor rights had no labour relations rationale.
The Government explained that the amendment was a reaction to a court decision which had interpreted the previous provision too broadly, thus enabling successor rights to bind employees in "other related activities";
the position on successor rights was now clarified in the Act and the Labour Relations Board only had a discretion, not an obligation, to determine what rights, privileges and duties carried on where a question arose under the provision.
74.
From information obtained during the mission concerning section 117.94 of the Labour Relations Act and section 92.2 of the Public Service Employee Relations Act concerning withdrawal of the check-off, it was clear that the complainant's initial allegations related to a draft provision which had not provided for notice and the right to appeal to the appropriate board.
The union representatives acknowledged that there was no problem at the moment with sections 117.94 and 92.2 as drafted and currently in force since they had not been utilised.
The Government stressed the fairness of the notice, appeal and time limit aspects of the present section;
it nevertheless acknowledged that the possibility existed for an employer to suspend all employee check offs in a situation where only one employee had withdrawn his services.
It considered that in such cases the appropriate board would have to decide whether an illegal strike had taken place and, if not, order the employer not to go ahead with suspension of the check-off.
75.
During discussions on the withdrawal of the right to strike from hospital workers (section 117.1 of the Labour Relations Act), the AUPE representatives emphasised their concern over the indiscriminate nature of section 117.1 in that non-essential staff were covered by the strike ban.
This has been discussed in a more general context in some detail above.
Evidence was put forward from hospital clerical staff to the effect that their job description and duties did not differ from clerical work carried on outside the hospital system and could not be described as essential.
The Government pointed out that there was much uncertainty, both at the national and international levels, as to what was an "essential service".
It was explained that the Provincial Government decided to clarify the situation through legislation rather than through Labour Relations Board decisions or arbitration decisions.
The Government stressed that only small groups were affected by section 117.1.
After it was pointed out to the Government that in some specific cases the international bodies had been very clear in defining the concept of essential services, the question of possible abuse was raised.
The Government explained that this question was before the courts in two jurisdictions, namely the appeal of an Alberta Court of Appeal decision to the Canadian Supreme Court (challenging Bill 44 on grounds of violation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms - to be heard in October 1985) and an AUPE appeal to the Alberta Court of Appeal which has been stayed pending the afore-mentioned Supreme Court decision.
D.
Concluding remarks
76.
The complaints lodged against the Government of Alberta fall into two groups.
A number of them appeared to indicate that recent legislative changes, in particular Bill 44 had changed the process of collective bargaining and submission to arbitration.
This it was alleged was in clear breach of ILO principles applying to a structure where limitation on the right to strike is balanced by free access to binding arbitration.
Others were individual points of detail.
These taken together it was suggested presented serious obstacles to freedom of association and free collective bargaining.
Together the two groups of complaints were felt - and the feeling was strong and genuinely held - to form a coherent policy aimed at weakening the public service trade union.
I feel it would be helpful to the Committee on Freedom of Association if I summarised the position as I saw it treating each of the groups separately and then assessing the overall position.
Collective bargaining and arbitration
77.
Bill 44 has made several changes to the structure of bargaining, and recent practice has led to the feeling that major limitations have been imposed and damage done.
The system as it is now working raises these issues to which the Committee's attention is specially drawn:
(a)
the system denies public service employees who are covered the right to strike.
It offers in its place access to binding arbitration;
(b)
the access to arbitration is limited by a jurisdictional clause (section 48(2)).
That clause is in effect the equivalent of a management rights clause commonly found in a collective agreement.
Two questions were raised:
(i)
the drafting of the statute enables the adjudicating body to take a wide view of management rights.
In such instances there will be a strong counter argument raised by the trade union since the exercise of such rights will undoubtedly, on many occasions, raise the issue that a trade union feels properly falls within the ambit of bargaining;
(ii)
the procedural methods adopted put the jurisdictional issue in the hands of the Public Service Employee Relations Board.
This has the effect of taking from the arbitrator, seized with problems arising from the break down of negotiations, some of the issues in dispute.
The trade unions do seem to be hampered by this duality.
A study of arbitration awards indicates that the application of these provisions has produced results that narrow considerably the arbitrator's jurisdiction.
It appears that the system, which it will be recalled is aimed at balancing the lack of the right to strike, is narrowing the issues that are deemed arbitrable.
It is a matter that calls for careful attention.
(c)
The addition within the statutory rules governing the work of the arbitrator set out in section 55 of the duty to consider "any fiscal policies that may be declared from time to time in writing by the Provincial Treasurer".
It appears from what I was told that it is the potential impact of this clause that is feared.
It is difficult to see the effect of the clause, taken at face value, on the practice of arbitration.
It cannot be seriously contended that such fiscal policy would not be considered by an arbitrator without such direction.
The dangers are, however, there:
(i)
an arbitrator aware of the precariousness of the profession may give paramountcy to this one provision.
Although it has to be said that this realistically is a theoretical danger, such a problem exists whether the position is statutory or not;
(ii)
the Government may issue its fiscal policy in such a form, for example, as a pay increase norm.
That would undoubtedly raise the impact of the particular criterion that is being considered.
It would seriously fetter the freedom of the arbitrator.
Indeed it would prove to change the concept of independent arbitration.
Such intervention should be directly, rather than indirectly, statutory.
The fiscal policies I was shown show no sign of such interference.
They state clearly and succintly general economic factors of concern to the Government.
Awards studied cannot be said to show any misuse of this section to destroy independence.
(d)
exclusions from the process of the Act have been recently extended.
This increases the number of public servants who lack the protection of the system.
The facts are clearly set out in the evidence given by the parties and summarised above.
The numbers under the Public Service Employee Relations Act are not excessive.
Whilst it would be possible to argue about the validity, under ILO standards, of a few categories there is no flagrant neglect of the appropriate principles.
78.
Attention must be given, however, to the exclusion of health care workers from the parallel bargaining structures secured by the Labour Relations Act.
That exclusion is widely drawn and gives too little attention to the important qualification of "essential worker".
Its width gives real cause for concern.
Individual items
79.
These have been set out in detail above and the views of the parties recorded.
They can be partially grouped:
Four involve statutory changes to legal structures.
Undoubtedly these changes make the trade unions' position less favourable, hence the reason for the complaints.
They do not appear, however, to involve significant fetters on trade union rights.
The Committee will be able to judge them from the views expressed;
I found little to add.
(a)
s. 74(1) - Labour Relations Act
Requires a duly authorised representative for collective bargaining to be resident in Alberta.
It was made clear that the legislation does not debar the trade unions seeking assistance in bargaining from persons resident outside the Province.
(b)
s. 87 - Labour Relations Act
Allows only one strike or lock-out vote.
This restricts certain previously allowable trade union tactics but does not prevent sufficient polling to determine the position prior to calling for a vote.
(c)
s. 49(1) - Labour Relations Act
Where a certification ballot is lost there is provision now for a 90-day moratorium.
This affects the current practice of signing members on a short (30 day) basis.
No doubt it will lead to a change of tactics.
(d)
s. 132 - Labour Relations Act
Where a business or enterprise changes hands there has been automatic transfer to the new employer of the collective bargaining rights and duties.
This provision now allows the Board to intervene.
Since it is only likely to do so where difficulties are anticipated the provision appears merely to regulate and expedite normal practice.
There was no indication that this provision would be used to change previous grounds for intervention.
(e)
s. 1(W. 1) of the Labour Relations Act was never promulgated.
80.
Three issues require separate comment.
(a)
s. 102.2 - Labour Relations Act
This provides the power to put the recommendations of a Disputes Inquiry Board to the workers concerned after 10 days of issue.
Calling for such a vote is seen as a denial of the right of the trade union officials to manage their own union.
It does not, however, deprive individual workers of their rights.
(b)
s. 105 and s. 106 - Labour Relations Act
The crime of threatening an illegal strike created by these provisions needs careful consideration.
It appears to put employees and trade union officials in some jeopardy.
Two problems arise:
(i)
the definition of a strike is by no means certain and precise.
In many instances it is possible that the matter could only be determined by a court.
An employee or trade union official either has his conduct widely fettered (fearing possible but not certain transgression)  or acts in good faith, believing the strike to be lawful and subsequently finding that it is not.
It seems essential that an individual who has no subjective guilt (i.e. knowledge or belief in the illegality) should be protected;
(ii)
the question of the authority of individuals to act on behalf of the trade union also may arise.
Again it is to be hoped that clarification will be undertaken to avoid uncertainty.
(c)
s. 117.94 - Labour Relations Act and s. 92.2 - Public Service Employee Relations Act
These provisions provide that where illegal strike action takes place the employer may suspend the deduction of union dues from employees' pay and their remission to the trade union.
This is an instance of fear that the provisions may be used unfairly.
The statute appears to allow the stopping of all dues in the unit consequent upon the action of one individual.
We were told that such response was most unlikely, except in the instance of specially selected key workers.
Again, it is important to note that there may be circumstances where the trade union itself is trying to prevent or end the illegal action.
Retaliatory measures in these circumstances would not appear to be fair.
Again it is a matter, once aired, that can be dealt with by clarification of the exact scope of the provision.
General considerations
81.
Consultation:
The complaints relate to a period when the perceptions of the Government and the public service trade union were markedly divergent.
Routine consultation on matters such as health and safety appeared to have continued unaffected.
However, the Government's determination to act quickly as a result of the major downturn in economic activity meant that consultation on the legislative changes in Bill 44 were almost entirely restricted to a public hearing before a committee of the whole legislature.
Since the legislation affected procedures in which the Government and the trade union played a joint part, it is unfortunate that more time was not found for consultation.
It would appear that now the urgency of the economic pressures has abated, the process of consultation can be re-established.
At the very least this will enable misconceptions to be ironed out before changes are promulgated.
82.
Attitudes:
It was clear that the trade union believed that it had been singled out for a concerted attack on its position and rights.
The steps taken by the Government, both in their obvious intent to restrict monetary rises and the individual changes, viewed in the worst light, gave a basis for the formation of such a view.
Whether these fears and the harshest reading of the legislative changes reflect what were intended is not easy to determine.
I saw little objective evidence to support this pessimistic view although I accept that the fear was genuine.
83.
Two aspects of the underlying problem should be mentioned.
1.
It is important and practically sensible to review the questions raised as to fears of ways in which the legislation may be used to seriously impede the trade union in carrying out its bargaining role.
Many of these, it seemed, could be resolved by an internal understanding secured, for example, by an exchange of letters.
2.
The second is somewhat more complicated.
The procedures appear to have changed the perceived independence of both the Public Service Employee Relations Board and the process of arbitration.
The reasons for this are set out at the beginning of this section.
It is vital that consideration be given to ensuring that the independence of arbitration is maintained and seen to be valued.
84.
The establishment of better relationships between the parties is desirable and even possible given the present, less alarming economic position and the increased awareness of both unions and Government of their respective responsibilities and obligations.
It will not be easy to build mutual trust quickly, but if attention is jointly given to the problems that were disclosed to me better relationships should be attainable.
It is clearly in the interests of both parties to make efforts to this end and to eliminate the fears that exist at present of a disregard of ILO principles.
IV.
Case of Alberta - No. 1234
A.
Introduction
85.
It was in a communication of 19 September 1983 that the Confederation of Alberta Faculty Associations (CAFA) presented a complaint of alleged violations of trade union rights in Alberta.
The observations of the Government of Alberta were contained in a communication dated 21 February 1984.
B.
The issues
86.
In its communication of 19 September 1983 the CAFA alleged that a November 1981 amendment to the Universities Act denied the academic staff of the universities of the Province of Alberta the rights bestowed by Convention No. 87, ratified by Canada.
The complainant explained that a new section 17(1)(d.1) empowered the Board of Governors at each university to designate those employees who shall be "academic staff members" and therefore eligible to join the faculty staff associations at each university.
The provision reads as follows:
After consultation with the academic staff association, [The Board of Governors is entitled] to do one or more of the following:  (i) designate categories of employees as academic staff members at the university;  (ii) designate individual employees as academic staff members at the university;  (iii) change the designation made under the subclauses above.
According to the complainant, this provision gave the right to the employer to determine who should belong to a faculty association, contrary to Article 2 of Convention No. 87.
87.
The CAFA explained that the present complaint was similar to previous complaints brought by various Canadian workers' associations against the Government, in particular, in 1977, the Canadian Labour Congress and the Canadian Association of University Teachers' complaint (Case No. 893, last examined in detail by the Committee in its 194th Report, paragraphs 92 to 118) and the 1981 complaint of the Alberta Association of College Faculties (Case No. 1055, examined by the Committee in its 214th Report, paras. 332-350).
88.
The CAFA pointed out that it had delayed presenting a complaint to the ILO concerning the Universities Amendment Act of 1981 in order to observe what would actually occur in the initial determination by the Board of Governors of who should be designated as academic staff, and hence members of an association under the new legislation.
It cited an example of such a determination:
the governing authority of Athabasca University declared its intention to designate as "academic staff members" fewer than one-third of the persons who had formerly been members of the Athabasca University Faculty Association by an arbitrary declaration of who were to be excluded on the basis that they were involved in senior management or that their activities did not meet the governing authority's definition of "academic".
According to the complainant, the Athabasca University Faculty Association was able to persuade the governing authority concerned that the original definitions were unwarranted, and eventually an agreement on designation was reached.
However, according to the complainant, given that the Act continued to give governing authorities the right to revoke designation at will, following consultation, the legislative threat to freedom of association continued.
89.
In its communication of 21 February 1984, the Government explained that universities in Alberta were created and structured in accordance with the principle of academic freedom, the right of each individual member of the faculty of the institution to enjoy the freedom to study, to inquire, and to communicate ideas.
The Government added that the principle of academic freedom must be safeguarded through appropriate institutional structures and the role of academic professionals in the management of universities had long been recognised.
90.
According to the Government, from the complexity of the academic and administrative functions undertaken by such institutions stemmed the recognition that university management is the joint responsibility of the various major elements of the academic community, including faculty, administrators, governing boards and students.
In particular, the faculty must play a major role in determining curriculum, subject-matter and method of instruction, research, requirement for degrees, academic appointments and granting of tenure and dismissals, since only the faculty had the competence needed for making and forming judgements on such matters.
The Government cited the example of the structure at the University of Alberta where faculty members played a substantial role in administration and in setting the overall university policy;
"staff members" are defined in the faculty association collective agreement as all persons who have been appointed to full-time teaching and research positions which includes all senior academics and administrators, such as the president, vice-president and deans.
The Board of Governors there consists of, amongst others, the president of the university and two members of the academic staff.
The General Faculties Council, which is responsible for the academic affairs of the university subject to the authority of the university, consists of, inter alia, the president, the vice-president, the deans of all the faculties, the directors of each school, the chief librarian, the registrar and elected members from all faculties and schools.
The Government explained that all these persons are "academic staff" yet they are active and influential members of the very body that acts as the university board's instrument for internal college management, which includes dealing with questions of tenure, salaries and promotions and the hearing of appeals and disciplinary matters.
91.
The Government, therefore, concluded that within the university environment traditional employer/employee or managerial/non-managerial distinctions did not apply.
All interest groups active within the institution played a role in its management, including the designation of "academic staff", because the Board of Governors comprised significant staff representation.
The Government stressed that the Universities Amendment Act attempted to create a framework within which dialogue regarding more traditional conditions of work issues could take place, while at the same time recognising the unique nature of the universities.
In particular, the Act designated the Board of Governors as the final authority and, secondly, the Act required "consultation" which the Government interpreted as including full consultation enabling the persons involved to have reasonable, ample and sufficient opportunity to express their views.
92.
Referring to the example cited by the complainant, the Government explained that in early 1983 the Athabasca University Governing Council declared its intention to designate as "academic staff members" fewer than one-third of those persons who were formerly members of the Athabasca University Faculty Association.
The Governing Council had felt that many professional staff were involved in senior management positions and their activities did not fall in the Governing Council's definition of "academic";
as a result of consultation between the Governing Council and the Faculty Association, an altered scope of designation had been reached, with the result that many of the persons involved - whose designations had been changed - had been redesignated as "academic staff members".
According to the Government, this example proved the effectiveness of consultation as required under the Universities Amendment Act, in particular in view of the fact that the Governing Council had recognised that fragmentation of the professional staff into small bargaining units was not an advantage to the University.
C.
Information obtained during the mission
93.
During discussions with representatives of CAFA, two points were emphasised.
First, the union was trying to have consultations, in good faith, with the employers (the Boards of Governors) in an effort to overcome the restrictive nature of s. 17(1)(d.1);
such informal consultations had, in fact, worked in the Athabasca situation referred to in the written complaint.
Secondly, CAFA stressed its concern that there was no right to appeal a designation of academic staff made by the Boards of Governors under s. 17(1)(d.1).
CAFA considered that a possible solution to the situation would be to include provisions in the legislation for third party arbitration on the question of designation, such as exists for collective bargaining deadlocks.
I noted that this was a useful suggestion since, in most cases, the job descriptions indicated those members of the university staff who were involved in teaching and research and those who were employed in managerial tasks.
94.
The Government pointed out that the Athabasca situation had been particularly tense since the campus had, at the time of the complaint, just been transferred from Edmonton to the northern town of Athabasca (after which the university had been named) to continue its "open university" curriculae.
According to the Government none of the three other Alberta universities had had problems, and the employees of the University of Alberta (in Edmonton) had indeed been surprised at the complaint because they had no trouble in negotiating with their Board of Governors the question of academic staff.
Nevertheless, the Government recognised that the legislation did not address the radical differences in the four universities of the Province.
I pointed out that, although no problems were occurring at present with the legislation, CAFA wanted some form of machinery to protect against situations such as had occurred in Athabasca.
To this the Government replied that since the other universities had managed to arrive at designations, no major change in policy could be envisaged.
I indicated that informal machinery such as a letter of understanding would perhaps suffice.
D.
Concluding remarks
95.
The issue here is a simple one.
The power given to the employer to designate staff as academic or not gave a high degree of control over the nature and size of the bargaining unit.
Industrial relations in universities, which have a large degree of participation and consultation, is of an individual nature.
Relationships have been excellent but the designation power led to a serious problem in Athabasca University, a body which because it concentrated upon "distance learning", that is to say students not on campus, has a special staff structure.
That problem has been satisfactorily resolved but the Staff Association has been alerted to a weakness in the law.
96.
There is no doubt that a unilateral power to designate does potentially put the trade union at a serious disadvantage.
All that is being sought is access to independent arbitration of disputed designation.
This appears to be a necessary safeguard to protect the integrity of the bargaining unit.
It seems most unlikely that the machinery will often be used for the relationship appears to be good.
Consideration could, accordingly, be given to the introduction of the simple safeguard that is being sought by the union.
V.
Case of Ontario  - No. 1172
A.
Introduction
97.
The complaint of the Canadian Labour Congress (CLC), on behalf of its affiliated organisations the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE), the Ontario Public Service Employees Union (OPSEU) and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE), was contained in a communication dated 15 November 1982.
The CLC supplied additional information in communications dated 15 December 1982, 16 February and 28 October 1983 and 10 January 1984.
The World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP) presented its complaint, on behalf of its affiliates the Canadian Teachers' Federation and the Ontario Teachers' Federation, in a letter of 8 February 1983 and further information in a communication of 7 March 1983.
The Service Employees International Union (SEIU) presented its complaint in a letter dated 6 April 1984.
The Government sent its observations in communications dated 25 April 1983 and 7 June and 16 October 1984.
B.
The issues
98.
In its initial communications the CLC alleged that new Ontario legislation, "the Act respecting the restraint of compensation in the public sector of Ontario and the monitoring of inflationary conditions in the economy of the province" (known as Bill 179), violated Articles 3 and 4 of Convention No. 87 and Article 4 of Convention No. 98.
The Act came into force in late 1982 and covered employees of the Ontario Public Service, all Ontario municipalities, municipal and provincial corporations, commissions, boards and agencies including universities, colleges, hospitals and health boards.
In particular, the CLC alleged that of the Act took away the right of the workers covered to organise and bargain collectively because it allowed the Provincial Government to extend, arbitrarily, collective agreements for a 12-month period during which it could unilaterally determine employees' wage increases.
In addition, according to the CLC, the Inflation Restraint Board established under the Act had been given sweeping powers to resolve disputes without reference to the unions or employees concerned.
99.
The WCOTP, in its communication of 8 February 1983, stated that Bill 179 constituted an unjustifiable interference with bargaining rights.
It pointed out that Bill 179 overrode the usual collective bargaining process prescribed in various specific Provincial Acts by imposing legislated limits on the wages of public sector employees, including teachers, because it took effect "notwithstanding any other Act, except the Human Rights Code, 1981 ...".
The WCOTP further stated that no grave national emergency existed in Ontario such as to justify this substantial restriction on the fundamental right to collective bargaining, the Government's professed commitment to the reduction of inflation not being a sufficient reason for this suspension by legislative action.
100.
According to the additional information provided by the CLC on 16 February 1983 the Act in fact had become law on 15 December 1982 with retroactive operation as from 21 September 1982 and applied also to privately owned, para-public sector companies contracted to or funded by the Provincial Government, for example, nursing homes, ambulance services, garbage contractors as well as to certain private charitable organisations and non-government agencies such as the Art Gallery of Ontario and the Botanical Gardens (section 6).
The complainant stated that the coverage of the Act might further be extended by regulation by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, without legislative discussion (section 25).
101.
The CLC explained its dissatisfaction with the Act as follows:
the Act imposed a 5 per cent increase on the compensation received by employees concerned for at least a one-year period (called "the control year"), regardless of the rate of inflation and the value of wage and benefit settlements in the private sector (section 12);
it "rolled back" or expropriated, without compensation, the existing contractual rights of employees under collective agreements which extended beyond 1 October 1983 and limited the increase in compensation and monetary benefits payable to such employees under such agreements (sections 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12);
it removed the right to strike or to binding arbitration in so far as such activities related to efforts to obtain monetary benefits in excess of those dictated by the Act (section 13);
it appeared to allow the parties to a collective agreement to amend non-monetary issues of that agreement without providing a mechanism for such amendment because the right to strike and the right to binding arbitration were removed (section 15);
it prevented a union from negotiating a first agreement with an employer where the certification of the bargaining unit had occurred after 21 September 1982 because employees could only strike or obtain binding arbitration on non-monetary issues (section 13, in conjunction with Ontario Regulation 57 of 21 January 1983 made under the Act whereby first agreements made after 21 September must comply with the 5 per cent increase in compensation laid down in the Act);
it discriminated against public sector employees by subjecting them to the above restrictions whereas private sector employees were not so restricted.
The complainant pointed out, in addition, that even if the parties to a collective agreement had agreed to an increase in wages or monetary benefits in excess of that permitted by the Act, the Inflation Restraint Board - consisting of appointed officials of the Ontario Government - could issue an order preventing the parties from implementing their agreement (section 21 of the Act).
In addition, the orders of the Board might be filed with the Supreme Court of Ontario so that they had the force of a judgement, thus allowing the Government to enforce them through any of the judicial methods of enforcement, such as imprisonment and fines.
102.
According to the CLC, such restrictions on collective bargaining as listed above violated Article 4 of Convention No. 98 and Article 7 of Convention No. 151, and the lack of disputes settlement machinery infringed Article 8 of Convention No. 151.
Moreover, the CLC considered that Article 3 of Convention No. 87 was violated because of the alteration, by legislation, of the conditions of work over a certain period of time and the removal of the unions' possibility to act through negotiation.
The CLC pointed out that under section 2(d) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, incorporated as part of the Federal Constitution in 1981, all persons had the right to freedom of association in Canada;
in view of the new legislation, public servants and other individuals covered by the Act in Ontario were now denied freedom of association.
103.
The WCOTP, in its communication of 7 March 1983, recalled that, under the Ontario School Boards and Teachers Collective Negotiations Act 1975, a collective bargaining process had been established according to which - if initial negotiations between teachers and their employing boards failed - the following action could be taken:  initial fact-finding, mediation, voluntary binding arbitration, final offer selection, strike or lock-out.
According to the complainant, free collective bargaining under this process had not resulted in inflationary wage pressures;
in fact, in every quarter since 1978, the rate of teachers' salaries had fallen below the rate of inflation producing a cumulative decline in purchasing power of more than 7 per cent.
104.
In addition, the WCOTP listed its principal criticisms of the new legislation as follows:
in cases where negotiations relating to the 1981-82 contract period were continuing, Bill 179 terminated negotiations, declared the previous agreement to be still in force until the first anniversary following 1 October 1982 (called "the transition period") and imposed a wage increase not to exceed 9 per cent.
Agreements already in effect and expiring before 30 September 1983, were deemed to be extended for a period of 12 months (again, "the control year"), with a wage increase of 5 per cent.
According to the WCOTP, Bill 179 also forbade the payment of any merit award, service-related increment, long-service bonus or allowance in respect of successful completion of a training programme or course of education, regardless of whether such payments were provided for in collective agreements, if the effect would be to increase total remuneration to a level above $35,000 per annum.
This extension by legislation of collective agreements eliminated the possibility of negotiation even on non-monetary items, such as conditions of work, and, since strikes were not permitted during the life of a contract, Bill 179 amounted to denial of the right to strike;
thus, affected employees would have no way to make any changes to their working conditions.
105.
Lastly, the WCOTP criticised the membership and procedures of the Inflation Restraint Board set up under Bill 179 - in particular the lack of appeal of its decisions - as well as the wide powers conferred on the Lieutenant Governor in Council.
The WCOTP stated that where the right to strike was removed, it was imperative to replace it with an adequate dispute resolution mechanism - Bill 179 left affected employees with no such mechanism.
106.
In its communication of 28 October 1983, the CLC referred to a recent decision of the Supreme Court of Ontario (Broadway Manor case) and the Government's public announcement of its intention to extend the duration of its control programme by legislation at the beginning of November 1983.
The decision, dated 24 October 1983, ruled that section 13(b) of Bill 179 was invalid because it infringed the right to freedom of association - which included the right to change bargaining agents, to bargain collectively and to strike - which was guaranteed under the Canadian Constitution.
Only this section of the legislation was held to be unconstitutional because it restricted collective bargaining over non-compensation matters which, according to the Court, could not be justified as being reasonably necessary to control wage increases.
On 10 January 1984, the CLC sent certain documentation referring to the replacement of Bill 179 by new draft legislation (known as Bill 111) which, if enacted, would take effect as of 1 October 1983.
107.
On 6 April 1984 the Service Employees International Union presented its submissions against Bill 179 reiterating the above-mentioned points for dissatisfaction with the legislation (it removed the right to change bargaining agents, to bargain collectively on non-monetary as well as monetary matters and the right to strike or resort to interest arbitration for a broadly defined public sector) and adding that the legislation is not in harmony with Convention No. 154.
108.
Referring to the importance of the independence and autonomy of parties to the collective bargaining process and the voluntary negotiation of collective agreements recognised by the Committee on Freedom of Association as fundamental aspects of Convention No. 98, the SEIU claimed that Bill 179, by interfering with existing provisions of freely negotiated collective agreements, constituted an unnecessary and unacceptable interference in the results of free collective bargaining and contravened Convention No. 154.
It cited the example of the Sensenbrenner Hospital employees who were awarded an 11 per cent overall pay increase in the summer of 1982 by a three-man interest arbitration board and some of whom - since they were among the lowest paid workers in the hospital sector - were awarded a supplementary award in October 1982.
On 2 November 1983 the Inflation Restraint Board ruled that the special wage increases contained in the supplementary award were null and void to the extent that they exceeded the 5 per cent limit prescribed by the Act, and ordered that any wages received by the 72 employees concerned in excesss of the prescribed increase were to be repaid to the hospital.
In January 1984 the Board had refused a request made by the SEIU that it  recommend, under section 17(5) of the Act, that the employees of the Sensenbrenner Hospital be exempt from its application.
According to the SEIU, there had not been any recommendations or exemptions granted to workers under these provisions of the Act.
109.
Lastly, the SEIU criticised the Government's statements that conditions of work other than compensation were not disrupted by Bill 179, that non-monetary aspects of a compensation plan might be made under section 15 of that Act, that the right to select a bargaining agent was only delayed for at most one year and, most importantly according to the complainant, that although the scope of collective bargaining had been temporarily narrowed it still covered trade-offs between wages and benefits and the determination of non-monetary terms and conditions of employment.
The SEIU alleged that this last justification was entirely inaccurate and unfounded especially in view of the Act's suspension of the obligation to bargain in good faith as required under the Labour Relations Act.
110.
Responding to the complaints in its communication of 25 April 1983, the Government stated that its adoption of the new legislation was a responsible and necessary action, taken only after consideration of a wide range of restraint options to overcome the worst recession since the Great Depression.
According to the Government, in 1981 and the first half of 1982 public sector wage increases were higher than private sector settlements in Ontario and there was evidence that administered prices - prices set or directly authorised by ministries or public agencies - were a major factor perpetuating inflation.
111.
The Government pointed out that the compensation restraint programme provided for a temporary (in most cases, only one year) constraint on wage increases of up to 5 per cent or 9 per cent, allowing conditions of work other than compensation to be changed by mutual agreement (section 15 of the Act).
It stated that special provision was made for workers with low incomes (section 12) and emphasised that the Lieutenant Governor in Council could exempt compensation plans from the Act (section 25).
According to the Government, trade-offs between wages and benefits could be made with the permission of the Inflation Restraint Board under section 14, and it listed examples of such trade-offs.
112.
As regards the alleged infringement of Convention No. 87, the Government emphasised that the legislation in fact favoured worker organisations in one way because workers with collective agreements were automatically entitled to a 5 per cent wage increase whereas other workers could receive less (section 12(1)(d)).
For workers already represented wishing to change certified representatives, the Government admitted that the extension of collective agreements under the Act would delay this for, at most, one year, but pointed out that under the normal collective bargaining system such a change was in any case also subject to a time-limit - of 90 to 120 days, for example under the Labour Relations Act.
As for the alleged limitation on the unions' freedom of action, the Government stated that this was incorrect:
while the scope of negotiations had been temporarily restricted, the collective bargaining system remained in place and unions were free to organise their activities, the right to strike and to binding arbitration only being delayed temporarily.
An example of this freedom of action was the case of groups which had been certified before 21 September 1982 but which had not attained their first collective agreement.
Under Regulation 57/83 made under the Act, such groups could use all of the normal collective bargaining procedures - including strike action - to arrive at first collective agreements on condition that the agreement provided for a compensation increase of 5 per cent for a 12-month period commencing between 1 October 1982 and 1 October 1983 and that the provisions of the whole agreement were substantially comparable to those of employees in related labour markets.
113.
As regards the alleged infringement of Conventions Nos. 98 and 151, the Government stated that the Act did not discontinue the voluntary negotiation machinery but merely prolonged collective agreements, with specified provisions for wage increases, for the period stipulated.
It stressed that non-monetary terms and conditions could be altered by mutual agreement and the parties were free to agree to use mediators and arbitrators in this connection.
According to the Government, there had been quite a few instances of collective bargaining resulting in the full 9 per cent being granted for the 12-month period prior to the control year under section 10 of the Act.
As for the limitation on disputes settlement procedures, the Government stated that, under section 14 of the Act, the Inflation Restraint Board could arbitrate, giving decisions which were binding on the parties and also indicating its reasons although the Act did not require it to do so.
Moreover, the Government pointed out that under sections 17 and 25 of the Act groups of employees could be exempted from the application of Part II of the Act;
it recognised that these provisions had not yet been utilised.
114.
In its communication of 7 June 1984, the Government referred to the appeal lodged against the decision of the Divisional Court of the Supreme Court of Ontario dated 24 October 1983 which held section 13(b) of the Inflation Restraint Act to be invalid.
The Government enclosed extracts from Hansard containing statements made by the Attorney General of Ontario which reflected the Government's concern over "the implications of the very broad interpretation given by the Court to freedom of association".
115.
In its communication of 16 October 1984, the Government again referred to the economic crisis of 1981 which had led all Canadian provinces except Manitoba to introduce public sector restraint programmes.
According to the Government, 71 per cent of all agreements and 69 per cent of all employees affected by the Inflation Restraint Act had been subject to controls for 12 months only.
It also presented statistics to show that after the Act had been introduced there had been a dramatic decrease in the rate of inflation.
116.
As regards the negotiation of non-monetary issues under section 15 of the Act, the Government pointed out that the Ontario Ministry of Labour had continued to offer and provide mediation services to parties covered by the Act who agreed to bargain non-compensatory issues, and negotiations had taken place on such items as grievance procedures, pupil-teacher ratios and job security.
The Inflation Restraint Board had made 655 decisions and orders between 1 December 1982 and December 1983, a number of which resulted from issues which had arisen in negotiation.
The Government contended that such mediation fulfilled the requirements of Convention No. 151.
117.
The Government also pointed out that the Lieutenant Governor's power under the Act to terminate the application of the controls to any compensation plan had been used with respect to certain municipal employees' retirement plan (Regulation 92/83) and to exclude certain handicapped people, persons not covered by minimum wage legislation and persons who received less than 50 per cent of their expenses from a government employer (Regulations 819/82 and 844/82).
Moreover, the Act required the Inflation Restraint Board to investigate price increases in government services called "administered services" referred to it by the Minister.
For example, in 1982, the Board had investigated a price increase for Northern and Central Gas which had been approved by the Ontario Energy Board, and had concluded that the price increase did not comply with the Minister's criteria;  the proposed price was subsequently reduced to bring it into compliance.
Moreover, the Cabinet Committee on Administered Prices had maintained an increase of only 5 per cent in over half the cases submitted to it, e.g. for legal aid fees, beer prices, school-bus tariffs, tuition fees for Canadian students, provincial park fees, resident fishing licence fees and Northern Telephone Ltd. charges.
Thus 92 per cent of the adminstered prices had kept within the 5 per cent increase guide-line.
118.
The Government explained that the legislation which replaced Bill 179 as of October 1983 - the Public Sector Prices and Compensation Review Act (known as Bill 111) - provided for full collective bargaining of both compensation and non-compensation issues and allowed the normal strike or arbitration procedures when the parties were unable to conclude a collective agreement.
119.
Lastly, the Government referred to the SEIU's allegations, stating that at no time during the operation of the Inflation Restraint Act had the right of employees to establish, join and participate fully in organisations of their own choosing been withheld.
Only situations such as that which had arisen in the Broadway Manor case had been affected by the Act;
in that case only certification had been delayed and certification under Ontario law was not a prerequisite to the lawful establishment of or participation in a "new" union.
The Government stated that its appeal to the Ontario Court of Appeal against the Divisional Supreme Court decision in the Broadway Manor case had been heard on 4 June 1984 but the decision had not, at the time of the Government's reply to the ILO, been rendered.
As for the situation in the Sensenbrenner Hospital, the Government denied that the Inflation Restraint Board had ordered a recovery of the excess payments that had already been made, but merely referred the matter back to the parties.
C.
Information obtained during the mission
120.
During the mission's stay in Toronto I had the opportunity to meet representatives of the following organisations:  Service Employees International Union (local 204), the Ontario Public Service Employees' Union, the Canadian Union of Public Employees and the Ontario Teachers' Federation.
These meetings were followed by a meeting with a number of Government officials representing the Province of Ontario.
In the course of my meetings with the trade union organisations I obtained information in the form of oral presentations and written submissions.
Written submissions and documentation were also supplied on behalf of the provincial government.
121.
At my initial meetings with the Canadian Labour Congress in Ottawa the problems referred to in the complaint resulting from the coming into force, on 21 September 1982, of the Inflation Restraint Act (Bill 179), had already been mentioned.
122.
Since the main thrust of the arguments advanced by all the trade unions was virtually identical as regards what they considered to be a violation of their trade union rights consequent upon the enactment of Bill 179, and to some extent, the later enactment, on 10 October 1983, of the Public Sector Prices and Compensation Review Act (Bill 111), it will suffice here to summarise these arguments and the information supplied in substantiation of them.
123.
I should, at this point, state that I emphasised to all the parties that no formal allegations concerning Bill 111 had been submitted to the ILO and that, strictly speaking, this legislation fell outside my terms of reference.
However, since Bill 111 is directly relevant to the issues raised in the formal complaints and is the latest act by the Government in the area of public sector collective bargaining, I felt that it was appropriate to record the unions', as well as the Government's views on this later enactment and its effect on public sector bargaining.
Indeed, at the time of the mission, Bill 111, itself a temporary enactment, was due to expire.
124.
The principal claim of all the unions was that the enactment of Bill 179 in September 1982 not only put an end to collective bargaining, and indeed to trade union activity, for a period of almost two years, but also prevented the coming into force of collective agreements freely concluded prior to the Act.
Generally, agreements that were due to expire on or after 10 October 1981 would be extended for a period of 12 months provided that compensation rates did not exceed 9 per cent.
These agreements on their expiry and every other agreement would be deemed to include a provision increasing compensation rates by 5 per cent for the ensuing 12-month period.
The unions argued that it was questionable that the economic situation in the country, and more specifically in the province, justified these measures and even if there were economic difficulties there was no justification for what amounted to a virtual ban on trade union activity for the period during which the Act was to remain in force.
In effect, since collective bargaining was excluded, even on non-monetary issues, there could be no arbitration, which was an accepted substitute for the denial of the right to strike in the public service.
125.
The SEIU, the majority of whose 33,000 members were employed in the hospital and nursing home sector said that it had always accepted the substitution of the right to strike for the right of independent and binding third party arbitration.
Bill 179, and subsequently Bill 111, showed that the Government supported neither the right to strike nor truly independent and impartial arbitration.
Similar arguments were advanced by OPSEU, representing 80,000 members, who added that the 5 per cent limit on wage increases had widened the gap between lower-paid and higher-paid employees.
Some 15,000 of their members employed in part-time employment, for whom protracted negotiations had resulted in a two-year agreement for a 9 per cent and 11 per cent increase in increment, had been denied the 11 per cent increase on the enactment of Bill 179.
Other categories of workers had been similarly affected.
OPSEU also introduced witnesses who described the effects of Bill 179 on laboratory workers and on the support staff of community colleges (approx. 5,000) who had been guaranteed, during the 1981 bargaining operation, that their wages would be increased by 20 per cent over the following three years.
All of these categories had suffered under the wage controls imposed by Bill 179.
126.
The CUPE emphasised that Bill 179 not only restrained compensation but eliminated the right to bargain effectively with employers over non-monetary provisions in a collective agreement.
This, they added, had been criticised by the Ontario Court of Appeal (Broadway Manor case) in a decision issued on 22 October 1984, a decision that was of little practical relevance since Bill 179 had then, for all practical purposes, been replaced by other legislation (Bill 111).
CUPE also emphasised that during the existence of Bill 179, workers governed by the Labour Relations Act were effectively deprived of the right to strike.
In addition, the possibility of resorting to arbitration by workers governed by the provisions of either the Hospital Labour Disputes Arbitration Act or the Crown Employees Collective Bargaining Act was effectively eliminated.
127.
Another point made by CUPE was that, as a result of Bill 179, they had originally claimed that the right to organise was infringed since workers could not change bargaining agents during the control period.
This was another matter which has been settled by the Court of Appeal of Ontario in the Broadway Manor case.
The Court held that the effect of Bill 179 was not to extend collective agreements themselves, but only to extend the terms and conditions of such agreements.
Bill 179 did not, therefore, curtail the right to change bargaining agents.
As stated above, however, the decision in the Broadway Manor case was only handed down on the expiry of Bill 179.
128.
CUPE provided a number of examples of some 100 agreements, concluded prior to the enactment of Bill 179, that had been "rolled back" by the Act, and explained that many low-paid workers were affected by this measure.
This union also mentioned that, in the hospital sector, a close wage relationship had always existed between workers represented by CUPE and those represented by SEIU.
However, the SEIU hospital members, who do exactly the same work as CUPE members, were awarded 11 per cent in a one-year contract arbitrated just prior to the institution of Bill 179, whereas CUPE members received a maximum of 9 per cent in the first year of their agreement, pursuant to the provisions of Bill 179.
As a result CUPE members were adversely treated in comparison with SEIU members simply because of the luck of different termination dates of collective agreements.
129.
The Ontario Teachers' Federation, which represents over 104,000 teachers employed in the publicly supported elementary and secondary schools in Ontario, also complained that Bill 179, and later Bill 111, had the effect of overriding the negotiating process established under the School Boards and Teachers' Collective Negotiations Act, 1975, as amended in 1983.
In its view no economic emergency existed in Ontario to justify the enactment of Bill 179.
In addition, the right to strike which teachers have in Ontario, was suspended during the control period imposed by the Act.
Detailed information was supplied by the Federation showing the impact of Bill 179 on the wages of teachers in the province.
130.
The Public Sector Prices and Compensation Review Act, 1983 (known as Bill 111), which replaced Bill 179 did not, according to the unions, restore free collective bargaining but imposed, in a more subtle manner, a further period of restrictions on collective bargaining.
In effect, Bill 111 provided that, during a "restraint period" of 12 months, the Inflation Restraint Board was empowered to fix and monitor all changes in compensation in the same broadly defined public sector as Bill 179, in order to determine whether compensation changes complied with the fiscal policy of the province as determined by the Treasurer of Ontario.
The Treasurer had announced that increases in average compensation should not exceed 5 per cent during this restraint period.
Furthermore, the Government had announced that government grants and transfers to publicly funded institutions covered by Bill 111, as well as allocations to its own civil servants would provide for average compensation increases of up to 5 per cent.
While compensation increases in excess of 5 per cent were possible, the Inflation Restraint Board, the Government and leaders of municipalities had made it clear that any attempt to exceed the 5 per cent guide-line would result in lower transfer payments from the province.
131.
In submitting these comments on Bill 111, both CUPE and SEIU also referred to the requirement, under section 10 of the Bill, that arbitrators take into account the "employers' ability to pay [...] in the light of existing provincial fiscal policy".
According to the unions, the Government, using this device, could unilaterally determine the funding of public-sector institutions, and the reliance on the employer's ability to pay effectively meant that the Government could also unilaterally establish wage rates.
Any claim of independence and impartiality of the arbitration process was also undermined.
The Canadian Teachers' Federation submitted similar comments in connection with Bill 111.
132.
In addition, all the unions referred to the fact that a number of a well-known interest arbitrators had rejected the criterion of "ability to pay" for public-sector wage determination.
Statements made by some leading arbitrators were produced in which they referred to the "atmosphere of intimidation" which the legislation engendered and to the public statements made by the Treasurer indicating that, unless the economic policy of the Government was followed, restrictive legislation of a long-term nature would be introduced.
133.
With the representatives of the Government of the Province of Ontario I raised all the issues that had been brought to my attention during my meetings with the various public sector unions.
The Government representatives claimed that compelling reasons of national and provincial economic interest had led the Government to conclude that it should control wage rates in the public sector.
In 1982, they explained, Ontario was experiencing recession, double-digit inflation (11-12 per cent), loss of international competitiveness and loss of jobs in the private sector (approximately 164,000 jobs in Ontario alone).
The restrictions on public-sector wages contained in Bill 179 were imposed as an exceptional measure.
The Bill was not intended to restructure labour legislation in the province, nor was it intended to be permanent.
Bill 179 imposed wage controls for only 12 months for the majority of the employees, and only 31 per cent of the employees affected were subject to the transition period which could extend controls for two years.
No employees were now affected by Bill 179.
134.
The subsequent legislation (the Public Sector Prices and Compensation Review Act, 1983 - Bill 111), established a guide-line for public-sector increases for a one-year period.
In the case of public-sector employees whose agreements were determined by interest arbitration, the new legislation required interest arbitrators to cost any change in the terms of collective agreements and to consider the employer's ability to pay.
In the case of public-sector employees who negotiated agreements (including those who had the right to strike) the legislation required the filing of information with respect to any changes in the compensation plan.
If an arbitrator determined, or the parties agreed to wage increases in excess of the 5 per cent guide-line, the legislation had no mechanism to "roll back" the wage increases thus determined or negotiated.
The Government representatives added that, since Bill 111 was now at an end, no wage restraint legislation was presently in force in Ontario.
135.
The Government representatives further explained that, in considering the economic situation in 1982 a number of options for action had been considered, including a national programme of wage and price controls.
Because a consensus with the other provinces could not be reached on this, and because of the difficulties encountered by reason of the nature of the Province of Ontario itself as regards a possible programme covering public and private-sector workers, a programme controlling prices and wages in the public sector alone was decided.
136.
The Government emphasised that safeguards were provided to protect workers' living standards.
In addition to controlling prices, the rate of inflation was lowered (to less than 11 per cent during the third quarter of 1982).
Since Bill 179 was introduced, inflation had continued to drop, and for the first quarter of 1985, it stood at 3.6 per cent.
Public-sector job security and employment was also maintained at a time when there was much job loss in the private sector.
Fair and reasonable increases were also ensured for employees covered by the legislation.
In this connection, the Government supplied statistical information showing that increases under the legislation were comparable to private-sector wage increases and had in fact exceeded private-sector wage increases since the fourth quarter of 1983.
Bill 179 also made provision for minimum increases, low-income earners and for wage adjustments.
It also permitted newly certified unions, i.e. those certified prior to the enactment of Bill 179, to freely negotiate compensation increases for the period leading into the control period in their first agreements.
The ability to change non-compensatory items of a collective agreement by mutual consent was also maintained by the Act as was eventually shown by the decision of the Ontario Court of Appeal to this effect in the Broadway Manor case.
137.
Referring to the SEIU complaint that Bill 179 had suspended the right to change bargaining agents, the right to bargain collectively on non-monetary items and the right to strike or to resort to interest arbitration, the Government representatives referred to the decision of the Court of Appeal in the Broadway Manor case which established that the union was wrong in its allegations.
The Court had, however, expressed some doubt that the employees could strike or resort to arbitration without actually making any decision on this point.
138.
The Government added that a wide range of consultations had taken place prior to the enactment of Bill 179 and there had been a broad political consensus for its adoption.
The Government had been satisfied with the results of Bill 179 and had replaced it by Bill 111 which was not an exceptional measure taken in a period of crisis.
Bill 111 was intended as a further step towards a normal situation and re-established collective bargaining in the public sector.
The continuing existence of the Inflation Restraint Board was merely for the purpose of ensuring its participation in current litigation.
139.
As regards the requirement, under Bill 111, that interest arbitrators take account of provincial fiscal policy and the ability to pay of the employer, the Government representatives pointed out that sums transferred to public institutions had always been decided upon by the Government.
Under Bill 111 the amounts were clearly stated.
In cases where the 5 per cent norm was exceeded either by arbitrators or by the needs of a public institution ways could be found to provide the extra funds required.
140.
Regarding the unions' concern that the Government had appeared to be constantly trying to find ways of reducing flexibility and placing pressures on arbitrators, which eroded and damaged confidence in the arbitration system, the Government representatives emphasised that arbitrators were merely asked in Bill 111 to keep certain criteria in mind.
Many did not feel bound by these criteria and some 200 awards had been made in 1984/85, the majority of these exceeding negotiated settlements.
Under the Labour Relations Act, a panel of arbitrators had been established for grievance disputes and it was generally from this panel that arbitrators were selected to deal with interest disputes.
The Government admitted that its information on wage settlements in certain sectors (e.g. in the municipalities) was inadequate but that efforts were being made to resolve this problem.
141.
On the question of "roll backs", the Government admitted that this had been seen to be harsh but again stated that they had been dictated by economic necessity.
The Government also pointed out that it could not recall, apart from one or two cases, that the problem of the absence of negotiations on non-monetary items to have been a significant one.
142.
The Government also admitted that there might be some longer-term effects of Bill 179, for example on job evaluation and classification programmes, but it was expected that the return to collective bargaining would resolve any anomalies that remained.
It was also clear that, in some cases, employers had taken advantage of the legislation by refusing to pay negotiated wage increases.
This was, however, a matter for the courts and one over which the Government had little control.
143.
Referring again to the decision in the Broadway Manor case and the problem of changing bargaining agents during the one-year period of control under Bill 179, the Government explained that it had considered this matter prior to the Bill's adoption.
It had been thought that it was inappropriate for a change in bargaining agent to take place during that period since the incoming union would not be able to negotiate. The Government had discussed this question with the unions whose reaction to the problem had been a mixed one.
In any event, according to the Government, since the public service unions were well-established it was unlikely that any challenge would have been made during the control period.
The Government recalled that newly certified unions were not affected by what was subsequently proved - by the decision in the Broadway Manor case - to be a false problem.
D.
Concluding remarks
144.
An obvious feature of this complaint is that it concerns the provisions and effects of the Inflation Restraint Act, 1982 (Bill 179) which is no longer in force.
Indeed, that statute was followed by Bill 111, a measure which itself is due to expire at the end of September 1985.
No further legislation in this area has been proposed at the present time.
It is none the less important to complete the process of assessing Bill 179 against ILO standards.
Even though it is no longer in effect, apart from some residual matters remaining for technical purposes, there is still a strong divergence of views in the province as to its nature and effect.
In addition, it has been suggested that some practices introduced by the legislation will continue to operate as a result of informal administrative action.
This point, too, has to be considered.
145.
Bill 179 was enacted to counter rising inflation.
Its effect, put generally, was to impose a fairly rigid control of wages in the public sector.
This was built around a "control year" with a limit of a 5 per cent increase. This was embedded in less severe controls which could be effective as a 9 per cent ceiling.
The whole exercise could affect a particular bargaining unit over a two-year period.
It was suggested that the Government had failed to establish that there was in fact an economic crisis.
There had been insufficient research and understanding of the problem.
It was also said that wage increases would have fallen year by year without legislative interference.
Both these beliefs are of course matters of opinion.
The basic data is not seriously in dispute.
There is a marked difference of interpretation between the trade unions who made these points and the Government.
It was suggested that such divergence of view should be resolved by some independent mechanism, such as the courts.
It is difficult to see the necessity in principle for such a fetter upon the exercise of the political will.
There is every opportunity for the matters concerned to be tested through debate in the political forum.
146.
Since the public sector was being singled out for special control, on the assumption that wages in the private sector would follow the trend set, it does seem essential that there should be ample time allowed for consultation.
Failure to do this might indicate that the action was indeed precipitate and partisan.
There was no complaint about lack of consultation.
What was said was that the views of the trade unions had no discernible effect on the attitude and actions of the Government.
That is a different matter.
147.
So far, these remarks relate to the political aspects of the concern expressed.
The actions do raise, however, practical and legal considerations.
The most obvious is the impact the legislation had upon existing collective agreements.
They were subject in many cases to amendment in particular a lesser wage increase being allowed.
A lawyer can characterise such action as the expropriation of rights.
148.
Such a result is difficult to avoid where a scheme of restraint is imposed which it is intended should have a speedy effect.
The Government was aware of the problem and chose to apply what it regarded as "rough justice".
Indeed attention was paid to attempting to mitigate some of the consequences.
Most notable was some degree of protection of the first agreement, that is to say, the first agreement made after a trade union has secured bargaining rights.
Such agreements often involve substantial improvements in terms and conditions.
This was recognised by the leglisation and the impact of the 5 per cent delayed to allow the first agreement to operate.
149.
Despite these concerns, the legislation appears to have had a greater impact on free collective bargaining than was intended or anticipated.
Three aspects of this appear to be particularly important:  the "chilling effect" on collective bargaining generally, damage to policies being pursued by the trade unions from bargain to bargain and the machinery for certification during the so-called "open" period.
150.
Although the legislation applied only to monetary items it seems to have had an effect on matters not covered by the Act on which the parties were free to bargain.
In part this was made more likely because there had been the anticipation of a switch of bargaining to non-monetary items.
Some steps had been taken to prevent this being used to undermine the intended financial control.
There can be little doubt that there were items adversely affected, health and safety issues spring to mind.
Now the problem can be seen in the light of experience;
it can be tackled should such a need arise in the future.
Particular attention should be paid to the availability of the disputes resolution mechanisms so that normal relations can continue hampered only by the minimum of restrictions needed to secure the objects of the emergency measures.
151.
The general objectives which the trade unions in the public sector were pursuing and which suffered setbacks are, for example, remedying low pay and seeking equality for women.
Both objectives are legitimate, indeed praiseworthy.
There can be no doubt that Bill 179 constituted a check to their progress.
Most obvious is the use of a norm for pay increases expressed as a percentage, rather than as a flat increase.
The Government accepts that this consequence occurred and points out that some steps had been taken to mitigate the result.
Some of the provisions did seek to give special advantages to the lower paid:
the highest were to some extent held back.
Whether enough was done is in dispute.
Recognition of the need to take into account such considerations when legislation is being prepared seems to be accepted.
This seems to be an important point.
152.
The third example of the wider effects of the legislation concerns the "closing" of the "open" period which is a feature of the Canadian industrial relations system.
The legislation purported to close the open period of the control year.
This was thought to deny the unions the right to gain certification.
The matter was taken to the courts.
Again, it is clear that the object of the provision was to secure as much industrial relations tranquility as possible during the restraint period.
The question raised is whether such action was convenient and useful rather than necessary.
It would need detailed knowledge of what the precise effect was during the operation of Bill 179 but prima facie the limitation appears to seek to avoid disturbance rather than secure an essential component of the limitation plan.
153.
Attention was drawn to the Broadway Manor case and two comments might be useful.
The decision was that the open period was not in fact closed - a distinction being made between terms and conditions which were continued and the collective agreement which did not.
The decision turned of course on the precise wording of the provisions of Bill 179.
In that it has narrow interest, but wider considerations arise.
The case shows the importance of prior discussion of all the possible consequences of proposed legislation, that is to say, of consultation.
What is decided then will be effective.
On the other hand, reliance on the courts to clarify or interpret the legislation may bring changes but these will almost invariably prove ineffective since the decision is unlikely to be available during the currency of legislation which is short term.
Consultation not only on the wider issues - should a provision be enacted - may merely lead to reaffirmation of the policy proposed but, on the practical consequences, what exactly is likely to happen might lead to sensible modifications being adopted.
154.
One of the clearest and most important points put to us by the various trade unions was the impact the legislation has had on the regular industrial relations machinery.
Various examples were given.
It was felt that the employer, where his financial ability to meet trade union claims was severely limited by government fiscal policy, was unable to bargain with freedom.
The scope of his flexibility might vary but his attitude was significantly altered.
There were some signs of this in some of the instances put but there was too little information to enable the position in the Province of Ontario to be confidently assessed.
155.
The problems the legislation and subsequent practice have posed for the important component of the system, independent arbitration, are much clearer and were put forward with much greater force.
During the period when Bill 179 operated on collective bargaining, of course norms were in effect substituted for arbitration.
Since then, under Bill 111, the idea of a norm, or desirable maximum increase formulated by the Government has continued.
Arbitrators are given quite specific indications of the Government's view and are expected to take this into account.
There are widely differing views on the effect of this practice, which appears likely to continue.
It must be true that arbitrators will always have in mind the economic background in which they are operating.
Many independent arbitrators are academics but few live in such ivory towers, as is commonly supposed, as not to have a clear awareness of these factors.
In the unlikely chance of this being lacking, no doubt the parties will raise the issue in their statements.
On the other hand, the publication to the arbitrator of a norm may have some effect.
Again empirical evidence is less than clear since, alas, it is not possible to assume that when an arbitrator says he has "taken into account" such a figure, he is indicating that he has or has not been greatly influenced by it.
There are ample instances of the arbitrator expressing scepticism.
To balance this it appears that several arbitrators have refused to act feeling that their freedom of action was fettered.
156.
The independence of arbitration is of paramount importance.
It is the feature of the system in the public sector which seeks to balance the non-existence of the right to strike.
That equation is one which not all those giving evidence accept as fair or proper but that question does not arise at this time.
What is important is that where that system operates, arbitration must be independent.
Confidence in arbitration is easily destroyed so everything must be done to ensure that doubts as to independence should be assuaged.
It is not a question of testing or challenging their validity.
It is essential to see whether steps can be properly taken to strengthen independence.
One significant point put concerns the appointment of arbitrators.
If at all possible, this should be done by a body independent of Government, a Labour Relations Board, a court and so on, depending on the particular structure.
It is a matter that would require serious consideration by the provincial authorities.
157.
Finally, it is necessary to note that the way in which these remarks are to be interpreted depends very much on whether inflation restraint secured by putting pressure on the public sector in particular is to continue.
It has already been noted that Bill 111 does not appear to have a successor.
Continuation of the policy, if at all, will be through administrative and practical measures.
Experience indicates that they can play an important part in the Government's policy.
If they do, since the method adopted is informal, greater care will be essential to ensure that the damage to industrial relations structures, especially the right to seek certification, to bargain collectively and to enjoy truly independent arbitration, does not occur.
The trade union apprehensions appear to run ahead of what is happening - justifiably so.
Awareness of these fears and discussion of the problems should help to avoid unwitting damage to the very vital safeguards built into current Ontario legislation.
VI.
Case of Newfoundland:  No. 1260
A.
Introduction
158.
This case has its origin in a formal complaint submitted, on 3 February 1984, by the Canadian Labour Congress on behalf of the Newfoundland Association of Public Employees (NAPE) which belongs to the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE), an affiliate of the CLC.
The Government's observations in response to the complaint were contained in a communication of 29 May 1984.
B.
The issues
159.
On 19 August 1983 an Act (known as Bill 59) was proclaimed the object of which was to introduce amendments to the the Public Service (Collective Bargaining) Act, 1973.
According to the CLC these amendments are in violation of ILO Conventions Nos. 87, 98 and 151 in three different areas:  the definition of "employee" contained in section 2(1) of the Bill, the designation of "essential" employees (section 10), and the limitation placed on strike action (sections 10(12), 23 and 24).
According to the CLC Bill 59 was the latest in a series of restrictive anti-union enactments introduced to control wages in the public service and limit the possibilities for strike action.
160.
The Government of Newfoundland explained that, between 1973 (when the Public Service (Collective Bargaining) Act extended bargaining rights to employees of the Provincial Government) and 1983, it had become obvious that section 10 of the Act was not effective in that almost every application before the Labour Relations Board had been found by either the Board or the courts to be defective in some respect.
Section 10 clearly needed to be amended to provide for the designation of essential employees whose services were necessary for the health, safety or security of the public.
In addition, unions continued to apply to the Labour Relations Board for inclusion in bargaining units of management and confidential employees and, although the Board generally rejected these efforts, it was determined that the Act should also be amended to remedy an oversight in the legislation and explicitly state the exclusions.
According to the Government, no amendments had been made to the basic Act prior to Bill 59.
Because of preliminary discussions with various public service unions and concerns expressed regarding three particular sections, the Act had been made subject to proclamation.
The Minister of Labour had contacted each of the public service unions and had invited recommendations to be submitted to the Government regarding expressed concerns.
No concrete proposals or written submissions were received by the Government and, accordingly, on 19 August 1983 the amending Act was proclaimed to come into force on 1 September 1983.
(i)
Exclusions from the definition 	of "employee"
161.
The CLC maintained that the amended definition of "employee" had resulted in the exclusion of more than 2,000 government employees from membership of NAPE and prevented them from joining any other union.
This group included justice department solicitors, legislative staff, middle management and consultants and could exclude a number of employees who currently had union membership with the bargaining agent that represented provincial government employees, namely NAPE.
The complainant considered as particularly offensive new section 2(1)(i)(xii) which specifically prohibits people hired for programmes sponsored by Government grants and working for the provincial government from joining a union;
it suspected that the provincial government would use this subsection to lay off permanent employees and hire non-union personnel to do the work of those laid off, work which had traditionally been done by members of the bargaining unit concerned.
162.
In its written response to the complaint, the Government stated that the amendments to section 2 had been necessary to prevent interference by employers in trade union activities and to avoid conflicts of interest involving management staff.
It pointed out that the exclusions described in section 2(l)(i)(viii), (ix), (x) and (xi) concerned high-level employees whose functions are normally considered as policy-making or managerial, or employees whose duties are of a highly confidential nature as contemplated in Article l. 2 of Convention No. 151.
The Government stated that none of these employees had been members of bargaining units at the time of enactment of Bill 59, nor had the union involved ever made application for inclusion in a bargaining unit of any of these categories of employees.
According to the Government, the exclusions provided for in section 2(1)(i)(xiii), (xiv) and (xv) concern persons on whom the Labour Relations Board, and not the Government, makes a determination as to the appropriateness of inclusion in a bargaining unit.
These employees would be those who, in the opinion of the Board, performed management or supervisory functions, or were employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations.
In the past, in utilising these criteria the Board had taken a fairly restrictive approach to exclusions from the bargaining unit.
163.
The Government stated that section 2(l)(i)(xv) allows for the exclusion of employees who, in the opinion of the Board, provide advice to the employer in relation to the development or administration of policies or programmes and that it was senior consultants who were intended to be excluded from the bargaining units under this provision.
Although these employees might not be supervisors in the normal sense of the word, or have access to confidential labour relations information, according to the Government they did form an essential part of the senior management team in many government organisations and were therefore clearly inappropriate for inclusion in a bargaining unit.
The Government emphasised that there had been no decisions by the Labour Relations Board interpreting this provision to date.
164.
As regards section 2(l)(i)(xii) the Government stated that this was an amendment to deal with a unique situation concerning which there had been a written agreement with the union concerned, namely that of individuals receiving social assistance from the Provincial Government, with the aim of helping them to become self-sufficient by introducing them to the workforce and of qualifying them for unemployment insurance benefits.
The Government explained that many of these individuals had no work experience or job skills, thus making it virtually impossible for them to obtain employment in difficult times;
they were placed throughout the province with a variety of employers, many in the private sector, in order for them to learn a skill or gain some experience so that they might find a job in the future;
they were not employees in the true sense of the word since they were not required to report for work, and, if they did not, they simply returned to social assistance;
the Government paid their wages and employment was for a specified period of time.
The Government pointed out that the union had agreed that these individuals would not be required to pay union dues and would not be covered by collective agreements.
However, in May 1983, the union refused to honour its agreement, which had led to the introduction of this legislative amendment.
The Government maintained that it was clearly inappropriate for normal union hiring and recall provisions to apply to this type of unique programme;
if this had been the case, the programme would have been significantly impaired, if not rendered inoperable, causing hardship for many needy people.
165.
The Government's final point concerning the definition of "employee" under the amended Act was that the excluded employees did enjoy freedom of association and the right to organise.
Neither did Convention No. 87 nor Convention No. 98 impose an obligation on Government to grant certification rights for the purpose of collective bargaining.
Excluded employees were able to organise and negotiate their conditions of employment collectively, often on an informal basis, and often on a formal basis when the Government had voluntarily recognised certain associations and bargained with them on behalf of their membership, e.g. Newfoundland and Labrador Association of Superintendents of Education and the Newfoundland Medical Association.
(ii)
Designation of "essential" employees
166.
As regards the amendment to section 10 of the Act which defines the method of designating essential employees, the complainant cited the restrictions contained in subsections 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8.
Subsection 1 empowers the employer of employees in a bargaining unit to provide the provincial Labour Relations Board with a statement in writing as to the number of employees whom it considers to be essential.
Under subsection 2, where no objection is made to this statement before the Board the number of employees specified shall be deemed to be the number of essential employees;
where an objection is made to the written statement before the Board, under subsection 3, the Board after considering the objection and affording the bargaining agent and employer an opportunity to make representations and to be heard shall determine the number of employees who are essential.
Once this process is completed the employer, under subsection 7, shall name the employees in the unit who are essential;  under subsection 8 the employer has the right to substitute names.
According to the complainant, subsection 1 allows the employer to make a statement at any time to the Board on the number of employees it considers essential, there being no restrictions as to the number of times that the employer can make that statement.
This permits the employer to participate in strike-breaking activities because, for example, an employer could designate few employees as essential in the initial stages of a strike and designate more and more employees as essential as the strike progressed so as to make strike action pointless.
In addition, the combination of subsections 2, 3 and 7 of section 10 enables employers to determine that only some employees in a classification are essential while certain other employees performing exactly the same duties need not be declared essential.
167.
The complainant alleged another discriminatory element in the process of designating essential employees under Bill 59:  the Labour Relations Board was now restricted from operating in an independent manner because, under section 10(3), it could not increase the number of essential employees from the figure that was contained in the employer's statement.
For example, when an employer designated 49 per cent of bargaining unit members as essential, for all practical purposes strikes were outlawed, and employees were prevented from taking their case to arbitration under the Act because a majority was necessary for such action.
168.
According to the complainant section 10(12) also violated the rights of public sector workers;  it provides that a strike vote cannot be taken until any dispute involving the determination of essential employees is settled.
Thus even the polling of a union's members to get an indication of the feelings towards strike action is prohibited.
169.
The complainant stated that the most repressive feature of the amendment to the designation of essential services employees was the fact that employees who had been deemed essential lost all their rights with respect to employment - they were not covered by a collective agreement and they were not covered by the basic labour standards legislation.
In addition, section 10(11) allows the employer to terminate immediately the employment of an essential employee who fails to report to work, without that employee having access to any appeals procedure.
Subsection 11 reads as follows:
"Where an employee named by the employer as an essential employee does not report for work as required under subsection 10, the employer shall forthwith terminate the employment of that employee, unless the employer is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for the employee not so reporting".
170.
In its written observations on the question of essential employees, the Government stated that the 1973 Act did not take away the right to strike from any particular group of employees, but only from those individuals in any given bargaining unit which the Labour Relations Board might determine were necessary for the health, safety or security of the public.
The Government stated that the 1973 version of section 10 had not achieved its purpose since the unions effectively thwarted the Government's applications to the Board for a determination of essential employees.
At first, few strikes had taken place in areas affecting the health, safety or security of the public and those that had taken place were of relatively short duration;
emergency services could be provided by management employees and, in some cases, the unions had allowed some bargaining unit members to work in emergency situations.
The situation changed, however, in 1981 when the laboratory and X-ray employees took strike action.
According to the Government, the union provided emergency services but not essential services, emergency services being provided only in cases where there was an immediate threat to life.
Management employees were able to provide additional services so that for a period of time hospitals had been able to cope.
The strike continued beyond a month's duration and difficulties arose, forcing the Government to act by introducing Bill 111 which provided for the designation of approximately one-third of the bargaining unit to provide essential services.
This Act had been repealed with effect from the date of signing a new collective agreement to cover laboratory and X-ray employees and, in any case, on the date of the enactment of Bill 111, the union had called off the strike.
Following the conclusion of this difficult situation, the Government had decided that the 1973 Act would have to be amended to provide a workable method of designating essential employees by an independent tribunal prior to a strike.
Therefore Bill 59 introduced new essential employee provisions;
employees could strike but essential services would have to be maintained.
The Government explained that, under the amendment, the Labour Relations Board determined the number of employees in any particular classification that was required to provide essential services.
This determination was based on the submission from the employer and provided for intervention by the bargaining agent.
After the union and the employer had agreed, or the Board had determined the number of employees, the employer named the individuals and might substitute those names.
This was necessary, stated the Government, so that the employer might choose employees who could do the required work since employees in the same classification might be somewhat specialised, e.g. critical-care staff or general day nurses.
It also allowed the employer to substitute names of employees who had resigned, retired or taken leave of absence.
171.
Regarding the allegation that the Labour Relations Board was now prohibited from operating independently, since it could not increase the number of essential employees contained in the employer's statement, the Government stated that it or the employer, and not the Labour Relations Board, had to determine the level of service which had to be provided to ensure that the health, safety or security of the public was not jeopardised.
It claimed that there would be a dereliction of public duty if the employer were to seek a lower number of employees than reasonably necessary to perform the required level of service.
It pointed out that where the number of employees deemed essential exceeded 50 per cent, the bargaining unit had the right to advise the employer and the Board that every employee would be deemed essential, and thus the right to compulsory binding arbitration was available to the bargaining agent pursuant to section 29 of the Act.
172.
The Government stated that, under section 10(12), strikes and strike votes which led to strikes were not permitted until the number - not the names - of essential employees had been agreed between the parties or determined by the Board.
The employer could not delay the determination of the number of essential employees unilaterally since section 10(1) allowed the union to request the Labour Relations Board to order the employer to make the necessary submissions.
The Government emphasised that section 10(12) did not prohibit the union in any way from polling its members to ascertain their feelings towards job action;
it merely provided that a strike vote leading to a strike pursuant to section 23 could not be taken prior to a determination of essential employees.
According to the Government, this was similar to a provision which stated that a strike vote could not be taken until conciliation proceedings have been completed.
173.
The Government maintained that employees who were named essential and reported to work did not lose all their rights with respect to employment.
Section 10(10) provided that they must report to work as if a strike were not taking place, which meant that the provisions of the expired collective agreement continued to govern essential employees.
The essential employees who worked through a strike were automatically entitled to all benefits that the striking employees were able to obtain upon settlement of the strike.
In addition, the Government repeated that, if more than 50 per cent of the employees in a bargaining unit were deemed essential, all employees had the right to binding arbitration.
As regards the allegation that because of the designation of essential employees, strike action would prove a useless tool, the Government stated that this was a premature statement in view of the fact that no orders had yet been issued by the Board.
The Government also pointed out that an essential employee who failed to report to work without reasonable grounds was subject to termination, but since the expired collective agreement continued to govern essential employees who were not on strike, the grievance provisions likewise remained in effect.
Employees were always subject to dismissal for just cause and the legislation merely stated that failure to report to work without a valid excuse would be just cause.
The employer's action and the employee's reasonable grounds would continue to be subject to the scrutiny of arbitrators and the courts.
(iii)
Limitations on strike action
174.
The third amendment introduced by Bill 59 which was the subject of the complaint concerned section 23, which now provided that employees who opt for strike action are required by law to give 38 days' (one month plus seven days) notice before they are legally able to strike.
In addition, section 24 of the Act had been amended so that workers in health care institutions did not have the right to strike on a rotating basis.
According to the complainant, sections 23 and 24 as they now read served no other purpose than to limit union members in their freedom to express themselves, as well as the right to strike to a particular means of striking.
It pointed out that the employer, when drafting the legislation, had decided to attack solely the union since the legislation did not provide for any reciprocal provisions concerning the employer, such as lock-out.
175.
Concerning the limitation on strike action, the Government pointed out that, under the 1973 Act, a seven-day notice prior to taking strike action was required.
This provision had not been altered except that where strike action did not commence on the notified date, a one-month's delay was required before another notice was permitted.
The Government explained that this provision had been included to prevent a union from closing an institution, such as a hospital, without actually going on strike.
When a hospital was notified that a strike was to take place, operations had to be significantly curtailed and the hospital was geared down to providing only essential services whether or not the employees actually withdrew their services.
The new provision required that the employees give the institution an opportunity to return to operational status for a reasonable period of time if they did not strike on the date originally intended.
176.
Regarding rotating strikes, the Government stated that such action in health service institutions had been prohibited so as to avoid a situation where persons were admitted to hospital and scheduled for surgery and, with no further notice, employees of that hospital went on strike.
Rotating strikes in health service institutions created life-threatening situations and, stated the Government, were completely unacceptable.
It pointed out, however, that these two provisions covering the timing and nature of strike action had no effect on the right to strike or the effectiveness of job action once taken, but were reasonable limitations taken only in the interests of protecting the health and safety of the public and did not amount to an infringement of freedom of association.
The Government considered that the allegation that the amendment did not include an accompanying prohibition on rotating lock-outs is difficult to understand since such action would never benefit health service institutions.
177.
In conclusion, the Government stated that the amendments under examination had been made to protect the health, safety and security of the public and not intended to discriminate or interfere in lawful union activities.
It pointed out that the Committee on Freedom of Association had recognised that exclusion from trade unions and the collective bargaining process of public servants occupying managerial or supervisory positions of trust was justified.
The Government maintained that the amendment to section 2(1) had excluded such employees from a bargaining unit but left them free to join associations to protect their occupational interests;
such associations had been recognised by the Government and bargaining had taken place with them.
As regards the other specific exclusions listed in section 2(1)(i)(viii) to (xii) the Government stated that it had no control over such exclusions since applications had to be made to the Labour Relations Board which made decisions based on established precedent and labour law principles relevant to exclusions from the bargaining unit.
It pointed out that, over the past several years, most inclusions/exclusions in government departments had been settled by agreement between the union concerned and the employer with only a very few disputed positions being taken to the Labour Relations Board for a determination.
As regards the allegation that the new method of designating essential employees discriminated against union activists, the Government stated that there had been no interference in union organisation and no instances of an employee having to join or relinquish membership in a trade union.
According to the Government it was in the employer's interest to have employees who would perform essential services and it was employer policy not to designate union executives and officials unless they were the only individuals in the classification who were able to perform the required work.
It reiterated that the amendments to the legislation concerning the timing or nature of strike action were not unnecessary interferences in the union's activities or programmes, but merely laid down preconditions to the implementation of a strike.
It stated that the union was free to poll its members and conduct ballots to determine the feeling of the membership towards job action and that only the formal strike vote which culminated in a strike might not be taken until essential employees had been designated.
C.
Information obtained during the mission
178.
I had extensive discussions on the issues raised in this case with both the NAPE and the provincial government representatives, headed by the Assistant Deputy Minister, on the spot in St. John's, Newfoundland and in Ottawa where CLC and NUPGE representatives also spoke to me about Bill 59.
Once again, the oral submissions of the parties were supplemented by extensive written submissions, handed to me in St. John's.
179.
The first point that emerged during these discussions was that the healthy industrial relations climate which had reigned in the Province since the 1950s had fallen to an adversarial one.
According to the union, partly due to the recession, partly in over-reaction to an increasing radicalism in certain civil service unions, and perhaps partly due to an aversion on both sides to seek interest arbitration, the Government interferred in the collective bargaining process with Bill 59.
NAPE's view was that, prior to Bill 59, responsibility for the decline in labour relations lay as much with the unions because of their radicalism as with the Goverment because of its paternalistic approach.
The unions, however, could not be blamed for the "panic" of the Government in enacting Bill 59 which was utterly pro-employer in character and which would only lead to a further deterioration in labour relations.
The background to the introduction of the legislation in Parliament evidences the misunderstanding between the parties at present, a point which will be referred to further on in this report.
(a)
Consultations
180.
The union stressed during our discussions that it had, in effect, only been given one day's notice when the draft legislation was tabled.
There were no public hearings on the proposed amendments and NAPE had been under the impression that Bill 59 as a whole was subject to proclamation whereas only the three disputed areas (definition of employee, designation of essential employees and the strike provisions) were held in abeyance and gazetted at a later date.
NAPE claimed that Bill 59 had eroded any previous trust that existed beween the parties and caused a situation of confrontation.
According to the union, the reason for the introduction of this legislation had been clearly a growing contempt by the Government for the unions and their increasing strength as well as a lack of respect for the unions' ability to represent the interests of their members.
The situation prior to Bill 59 had been satisfactory with 294 contracts having been concluded.
The arbitration system and the selection of arbitrators from a panel established by the Labour Management Co-operation Committee had also been satisfactory.
181.
The Government, on the other hand, explained that copies of the draft amendments had been given to the union very shortly before they were tabled in Parliament.
The difficulties with the basic collective bargaining Act and with section 10 in particular had been discussed with NAPE representatives on many occasions in the past.
The Government delayed proclamation of the disputed parts of Bill 59 and informed the union that it wanted to receive its suggestions on them.
However, according to the Government, no written submissions were received;
only a general tape-recorded description of the problems was handed in to the Ministry of Labour.
This the Government took to be a lack of interest in face-to-face discussion.
The provisions were then proclaimed and came into force on 1 September 1983.
The Government could not explain why the union backed off at this juncture although it recognised that it may had been due to the breakdown in the informal, co-operative relations which the union had had with the Government as employer in the past.
(b)
The definition of employee
182.
According to NAPE, in the amendment of section 2(1) in Bill 59 the Government had effectively excluded up to 2,000 workers from union membership which some had previously enjoyed.
NAPE was concerned with the exclusion from the definition of employee of persons employed in an employment opportunity programme administered by the provincial Government with its own and/or federal monies (section 2(1)(i)(xii)).
The union pointed out that this exclusion from coverage of the Act does not apply to similar programmes administered by other levels of government such as school boards and municipalities.
It claimed that the aim of such programmes was not to train the unemployed to enter the workforce, but to transfer them from the provincial payroll to the federal payroll.
Since such persons could not join a union, it was more difficult to negotiate increases in union members' benefits, and the union felt threatened by this source of scab labour should strikes occur and the possible reduction in working time of union members.
NAPE was particularly suspicious of this provision given that it has made many agreements with employers not covered by the Act (municipalities, the College of Fisheries, private hospitals) allowing employment opportunity programmes in workplaces where it represents workers.
From copies of such agreements handed to me, it appeared that NAPE's only precondition for accepting non-union workers in such workplaces was the protection of the job security and benefits of its members.
The union's other concern with this provision - that it denied these persons the right to join a union - was not related to an earlier agreement NAPE had had with the Government concerning non-unionisation;
that agreement had only concerned persons on welfare.
According to NAPE, when the Government started using these people in programmes, that understanding fell.
Given that the union was prepared to represent these people on matters not connected to their rates of pay which were set under the scheme, more or less in line with the minimum wage, and would not expect them to pay dues, it felt that the Government ought to have negotiated their situation with NAPE instead of legislating them out of coverage under the Act.
183.
The Government pointed out that the employment opportunity programmes were designed to enable unemployed persons to accrue the 20 weeks' workforce experience required for entitlement to federal unemployment benefits.
When NAPE's position on coverage of such persons for non-collective bargaining items was put to the Government, there appeared to be further misunderstanding:
the Government stated that, in 1984-85, about 600 people had been involved in the programmes and therefore not entitled to collective bargaining, whereas the union had claimed that 2,000 had been without collective agreements.
Given the temporary employment of people in these unique programmes, the Government found it hard to understand why the union would be interested in recruiting these people for membership per se but did not express opposition to this possibility.
184.
As regards the exclusion contained in section 2(1)(i)(xv) (persons providing advice to the employer in relation to policies or programmes), NAPE explained that the past practice of negotiations and Labour Relations Board decisions had worked well when disputes - which were quite rare - over this type of employee arose.
It feared that this amendment could be stretched to include such persons as social workers or consultants.
It pointed out that the Labour Relations Board has refused to grant exemptions for the present until judicial challenges to Bill 59 as a whole are completed.
The Government considered that it had only put into legislative form the criteria of the Board's past practice, namely the exclusion of managerial, confidential and policy-making employees.
It pointed out that this was an exclusion specifically recognised in Article 1 of Convention No. 151.
I pointed out that the union's suspicion might have been the result of a lack of communication as to the intent of this provision.
185.
During these discussions on section 2(1), the Government also emphasised that there was no hidden motive behind subsection (ix) - which excludes solicitors and legislative counsel from the Act - and pointed out that they do form associations and bargain collectively with the employer.
(c)
Questions concerning the right to strike
186.
Section 2 of the Amendment Act of 1983 (Bill 59) repealed section 10 of the Public Service (Collective Bargaining) Act of 1973 which related to the designation of essential employees, that is to say "employees whose duties consist in whole or in part of duties the performance of which, at any particular time or during any specified period of time, is or may be necessary for the health, safety or security of the public".
While the definition of essential employees remained the same after the 1983 amendment, a number of issues arose from the further amendments introduced by Bill 59 to the Act of 1973.
187.
NAPE claimed that public-sector unions had always provided essential services to protect the health, safety and security of the public.
It was NAPE's belief, however, that the legislation was being used to give the employer, the Government and the Newfoundland Hospital Association, an advantage in collective bargaining.
NAPE representatives insisted that they were fully conscious of the need to provide essential services during labour disputes.
Bill 59, however, empowered the Labour Relations Board to be final arbitrator with respect to essential services.
The Board would always err on the side of caution in its decisions on essential services, thus favouring the employer.
It was NAPE's contention that the Board would not appoint more essential employees than the number requested by the Government.
The result was the prevention of more than half of any bargaining unit being designated as essential, thereby preventing in turn a resolution of a dispute by arbitration;
it was obviously the Government's intention to eliminate the right to strike, but also to prevent disputes from being resolved through arbitration.
188.
NAPE argued that it was difficult for the union to agree on the determination of essential employees since the employer refused to give it information on the total number of workers in bargaining units and their job classifications.
189.
According to NAPE, the workers in liquor stores who had previously been considered essential, had had their right to strike restored, whereas the status of hospital food service workers had not changed, their right to strike always having remained intact.
It was an anomalous situation when health inspectors employed by the provincial Government were considered essential but workers not working for the province but who prepared food for a number of hospitals were not.
190.
The Government, according to NAPE, had always been unwilling to settle questions of essential employees through negotiation or by following alternative disputes settlement procedures.
This question was one which had been going on for years and the courts and the Labour Relations Board had decided that the Government's approach had been impractical.
191.
If, for example, through negotiations or by decision of the Labour Relations Board, 33 per cent of hospital support staff were declared essential, this would mean that out of a bargaining unit of 800, 265 would remain at work.
To this latter figure would be added management and non-bargaining unit workers and workers of other bargaining units.
In other words, a major hospital, during a strike, could have more workers available than during the peak annual leave period.
It was, in addition, the practice in Newfoundland to recruit other workers to replace striking workers.
Hospital support staff had, therefore, lost their collective bargaining rights through this procedure which, in addition, denied them any other disputes settlement machinery.
192.
Under Bill 59, employers could select essential employees as they wished or otherwise manipulate strikes by making it difficult to deal with a dispute if a large minority of workers were deemed essential and received full pay and benefits while those on strike had their regular income interrupted.
193.
Another aspect of the matter was the ability, according to NAPE, of the employer to have a small percentage of the bargaining unit declared essential and to return periodically to the Board for further increases in that percentage.
Such a practice would have the effect of destroying strikes.
194.
NAPE agreed that the legislation had never been used by the employer in this manner but claimed, nevertheless, that these advantages written into the legislation had a prejudicial effect on the morale of the workers and on the collective bargaining process.
The belief, shared by NAPE and by the Government, is that there must be levels below which public services should not be reduced, should not be used, either by unions or by government, to gain advantages in collective bargaining.
195.
In NAPE's view, the question of essential services should be decided through negotiation between the Government and the union, or decided by an expert third party.
No one should gain any advantage and essential services should be shared equally amongst the qualified members of the bargaining unit.
Since the question of essential services destroys the right to strike, any bargaining unit in which the question arises must have an alternative disputes settlement procedure at its disposal.
196.
NAPE also questioned the need of sections 27-29 of the Act which provide for a declaration of a state of emergency during a strike where such a strike would be injurious to the health or safety of persons, or a group or class of persons, or the security of the province.
197.
The union referred to one case concerning a strike in 1981, of laboratory technologists, X-ray technologists, technicians, etc. following the failure of the Government to accept the report of a conciliation board.
Although a strike was declared, the union set up an essential employees system and provided specialist skills, on a permanent basis.
A renewed offer by the employer was refused by the union.
The Government introduced legislation (Bill 111) declaring up to half the bargaining unit as essential, thus putting an end to the strike.
In the view of NAPE, the Government could have referred the issues in dispute to arbitration or returned to the negotiating table.
Instead, by introducing legislation, it destroyed collective bargaining for the unit concerned.
The union thereafter signed a collective agreement and Bill 111 came to an end.
198.
NAPE also argued that section 2(12) of Bill 59 denied union members the right to vote to take strike action.
If the employer made an offer, the only vote that could be taken would be one to accept it, otherwise it would be illegal.
The designation of essential employees should follow - and not precede - a decision to strike.
199.
Another problem was that posed by section 23 of the Act, as amended by section 6 of Bill 59.
Under the previous legislation of 1973, bargaining units were required to give seven days' notice of any strike.
Under Bill 59, if the union did not go on strike on the date specified in the notice, 30 days had to elapse before a further notice of seven days could be given.
Again, in the view of the union, this was an attempt to control collective bargaining to the advantage of the employer.
200.
Section 24 of the 1973 Act was also amended by Bill 59 to prevent rotating strikes which, in NAPE's view, should not be banned.
Here again, this prohibition gave the employer great influence on the union's negotiating strategy.
In addition, rotating strikes would ensure that only a portion of the hospitals in the province would be on strike at any given time.
201.
In its submissions on the question of strikes, the Government explained that the 1973 Act granted this right to all workers covered by it, i.e. civil servants, hospital employees and vocational school instructors, with the exception of those who might be designated as essential.
Prior to Bill 59, the employer, at the time of certification of the union, made an application to the Labour Relations Board for designation of a list of named employees.
Almost every such application had been contested by the union and in some way found wanting by the courts which themselves said that the Act required substantial modification on this question.
Even on one occasion, when the Board had appointed a panel of experts to designate, the court had found that this panel did not have jurisdiction to do so.
202.
This unsatisfactory situation lasted for almost ten years and it was only after the strike, in 1981, of laboratory and X-ray workers during which a threat was made to call out even essential services, that amendments were introduced in Bill 59.
As regards the 1981 strike, the Government added that arbitration was not provided for in the legislation nor, from an economic point of view, did the Government consider it appropriate to refer the issues to arbitration.
Although the conciliation results  had been rejected by the Government, it was often the union that rejected such results.
In any event, the emergency legislation was enacted since there was an urgent and grave risk to the health of patients.
203.
The 1973 Act had, accordingly, proved to be unworkable as regards essential services and Bill 59 had introduced amendments which were procedural rather than substantial.
Instead of asking the Board to designate named employees, a number was requested.
The employer could apply to the Board at any time and not, as before, only at the time of certification, most unions being in any event voluntarily recognised.
According to the Government, the union's claim that the employer might make successive requests to the Board in order to increase the number and thus break a strike was a misunderstanding on its part.
Not only was it not the employer's intention to do this but it was also practically impossible since there were major difficulties in convening the Board at short notice.
204.
According to the Government, there had been meetings with NAPE concerning these problems but in spite of all the explanations given to them, the misunderstanding remained.
No such problems, however, existed between the employer and other bargaining units, e.g. the Canadian Union of Public Employees, on these matters.
Agreements as to the designation of essential employees had been reached with other unions, but NAPE who had knowledge of the employer's current proposals, had requested the Board not to proceed with hearings on them.
The Government supplied the mission with detailed information on the recommendations it had made to the Board as to the percentage of essential employees that might be fixed by the Board.
Since 1983, however, NAPE had steadfastly refused to participate in the process of negotiating essential employee requirements.
205.
It was important to emphasise, continued the Government, that in June 1985, section 10 of the Act was amended and a significant number of Government employees in nine specific bargaining units were excluded from the designation of essential requirement.
Other government agencies or boards had identified a minimal or no essentials requirement and, in the overall government sector, it had been determined that 21 per cent (17.7 per cent including section 10 units) of the employees were essential.
This group included 100 per cent of prison warders (who now had automatic access to arbitration) and others such as forest-fire suppression crews, social workers, etc.
The requirement in the health-care sector was greater (33 per cent) to ensure a minimum standard of care for the sick and the aged.
206.
The Govermment pointed out that five years ago the union would not have been prepared to accept arbitration as an alternative to its right to strike.
Now it was the Government which, in the present economic situation, was reluctant to seek arbitration.
Bill 59, the Government insisted, resulted from court decisions and was precipitated by the 1981 strike.
Now, the Government pointed out, the rules were set and well known and this was preferable to the adoption - as was the case in 1981 - of emergency legislation in the event of a strike in an essential service.
There had been no strikes in the hospital sector since 1981.
207.
As regards sections 23 and 24 of the Act, as amended by Bill 59, the amendments introduced in June 1985 had repealed section 23 but had maintained the seven-day notice period in respect of hospitals and health-care institutions.
If workers in these sectors did not go on strike on the date specified in the notice, a further 30 days had to elapse before another notice was given.
The reason for this was to deal with the problem of sending patients home and bringing them back to hospital if the strike did not occur.
The system did not exclude eleventh-hour bargaining and, in the view of the Government, there was no reason why there could not be an agreement between the parties to extend by one day the seven-day notice period if a new offer was made.
208.
Concerning rotating strikes, the Government explained that Bill 59 had amended section 24 of the Act to prohibit such strikes in health service institutions only.
The Act concerned the bargaining unit only, and while part of that unit could be called out on strike, there could be no question of that part striking on a rotating basis.
This provision had been introduced to avoid the kind of problem that had been experienced during the 1981 strike of laboratory and X-ray workers.
D.
Concluding remarks
209.
Public servants represented by NAPE basically retain the right to strike.
The counter-inflation measures overrode the bargaining system which remained intact for use once the special legislation had run its course.
The complaint, therefore, relates to limitations which appear to have recently been introduced into the usual process of bargaining.
210.
The first point raised, and it is a very important one, was that the measures in Bill 59 were never the subject of proper consultation.
It is obvious to an outsider coming to Newfoundland that, although industrial relations in the public sector are not without their share of problems and some strife, there has been a good relationship between the trade union and government.
This did not prevent disharmony on Bill 59.
It is difficult to describe accurately the extent of consultation on Bill 59 since perceptions differed.
Such contact as there was took place in an atmoshpere where the Government, having recently reviewed industrial relations was determined to seek revision built on experience.
Whilst the trade union viewed the changes as a threat to its position, indeed it felt that the position had not been adequately assessed and felt threatened by the provisions of the Bill, some of which it found far from clear.
It appeared to NAPE that a series of incidents over the previous few years had led to a somewhat extreme reaction which did not reflect what was really to be anticipated.
The underlying confusion and suspicion were clear.
211.
The Act has been in place now for some two years.
Misunderstandings and hesitancies still exist.
It has to be noted that very recently some important modifications have been made by an amendment Act of June 1985.
This serves to underline the need for a resumption of co-operative consultations.
It is still possible to detect divergent views on the meaning and intent of various provisions of Bill 59:
several practical difficulties can be foreseen and both sides are looking predominantly at the possiblity of extreme reactions from the other.
This is surely fruitful ground for consultation and it would seem that there is scope for jointly clarifying, tidying up and more closely defining the rules and, in the process, re-establishing a better working relationship.
212.
One of the most serious points put by the union relates to the limitation on collective bargaining by amendments to the definition of employee.
This has two components.
Section 1(b)(xii) excludes from the crucial definition of employee, those employed in an opportunity employment programme.
There was some confusion between the accounts given as to the exact coverage of this subsection.
What is clear is that it excludes workers offered opportunity placements from bargaining units.
This is understandable since the principal terms and conditions are governed by the terms of the scheme.
However two worries remain.
The trade union seeks the right to be consulted on such workers who are used in work within or connected with the bargaining unit.
There also appears to be no reason why such workers could not be admitted as members with limited or notional dues so that residual services other than bargaining could be provided.
The second provision to which objection is raised in that of advisers to the Government in the development or administration of policies or programmes to be determined by the Labour Relations Board.
This subsection, it was agreed, enshrined what had been the practice.
It is illustrative of the lack of understanding that both agree on this, yet the trade union has a suspicion that some change was intended.
Only an open dialogue can remove such apparent misunderstandings.
213.
Most complicated and central to the complaint are the changes made by Bill 59 to the concept of essential employee.
The bargaining units concerned include for example, hospitals and air traffic controllers.
Although there have been few strikes the Government has sought in the Bill to give added protection to essential services.
The trade union in almost all cases has offered "emergency personnel".
There is a discrepancy in thinking as to what this should cover which is epitomised by the use of different words - "emergency" and "essential".
The process of designating a proportion of each bargaining unit as essential has ground to a halt.
The figures suggested by the Government have been made knowing the Labour Relations Board has power of decision.
Two difficulties arise.
The trade union challenges some of the numbers which, it appears, have been selected with a liberal eye.
It fears the Labour Relations Board will be unable to look at such an issue with rigour since the decision, possibly affecting safety and health is an onerous one.
That should not be too difficult to resolve.
214.
Of much greater concern is the effect designation is likely to have on strikes and it should be remembered that the right to strike is an important feature of the relationships being considered.
If more than 50 per cent of a unit are designated as essential then the right to strike is replaced by independent binding arbitration.
Neither the Government nor the trade union has a great liking for this mechanism.
None the less it is clear that if a substantial proportion of the workers are designated as essential then it becomes more attractive to the trade union than a weak strike.
As with so much in the complaint the issue cries out for study and compromise.
Unless some relaxation in the rules is made, those sectors where say 33-50 per cent are designated will fall between the two systems and trade unions rights will be  restricted unacceptably.
The relationship between designation of essential workers and the strike vote is a further point raised.
Again there is a different view of how the system will work in practice.
There appears to be a chance that designation of a proportion outside the context of a strike, i.e. as a normal procedure, and of individuals after the strike vote might go some way to alleviating the problem.
215.
Two strike tactics have been dealt with by Bill 59.
Both have arisen from isolated examples in the past and the provisions again appear to have a degree of ambiguity.
The prohibition of a strike where the stated date has passed, for a period of 30 days, and fresh notice could be used to delay a strike by last-minute bargaining.
There is no evidence that that is intended, and a simple amendment, or even letter of intent, should remove the genuinely held fear.
The provision against so-called rotating strikes does appear to interfere with the trade union's power to determine how it shall conduct a strike in the tactical sense.
Again the provision gives rise to a justified fear but unless it is misused cannot be said to be a serious fetter on action.
216.
It will be obvious that the Government has looked at past practice and has decided to prevent practices which were felt to be abuses of trade union power that caused potentially difficult management problems in key public sector areas.
This has led to a strong reaction and even stronger suspicion.
The trade union has suggested, for example, that provisions which appear at first sight to be enshrining useful and common practice (such as section 18 allowing the Minister power to defer the statutory process to introduce a conciliator or mediator) are devices that can be used to defer or delay.
There can be no clearer example of the need to clarify attitudes and intentions.
A relatively small number of agreements or statements of intent on both sides would ensure that the possible use of the legislation to damage or hamper the proper use of trade union power would be accepted as not being the intention of the legislation.
217.
The Committee on Freedom of Association will appreciate that the purpose behind the legislation has been left unclear since it can be used in several instances with differing results.
One interpretation would seriously limit the right to strike effectively using normal criteria.
If this is to be a possibility the underlying basis of the system could be in jeoparady.
It has to be remembered that the usual formula in the public sector is that if the right to strike is withdrawn, the alternative protection in these special cases is access to independent binding arbitration.
Where the right to strike exists but is seriously fettered or put in jeoparady, then the workers concerned lack effective protection.
218.
It is important that the exact meaning and possible uses of the provisions of Bill 59 are clarified.
This will undoubtedly lead to some adjustments - it was pleasing to hear that the 1985 Bill has already started that process, albeit unilaterally.
Once this process is complete it will be necessary to see whether the right to strike, with reasonable limitations to protect the health, welfare and safety of the people, exists.
Where it does not, alternative protection will be required.
VII.
Final remarks
219.
Three of the complaints arise as a reaction to recently enacted legislation in Alberta (Case No. 1247) - Bill 44, in Ontario (Case No. 1172) - Bill 179 and in Newfoundland (Case No. 1260) - Bill 59.
The fourth, Alberta (Case No. 1234), is a much narrower point.
Although the industrial relations system varies from province to province, in some respects markedly so, and although the three pieces of legislation take differing approaches, there is a strong underlying similarity of policy and aims.
It seems appropriate therefore in these concluding remarks to draw the Committee on Freedom of Association's attention to the underlying currents.
220.
All three statutes were enacted as a result of the Government's need to combat inflation.
All three applied to the public sector, that is to say, direct employees of the Government and others employed by independent bodies largely dependent upon government funding.
This special attention had two prime causes.
The Government itself was the employer or had a strong influence over the employer and it was felt that control of the public sector was both necessary and would set the level for the private sector.
Most of the queries raised on this belong to the economic debate.
What concerned the trade unions and must concern the Committee is the damage such legislation has done to industrial relations, in particular of course, in breach of the principles set out in the ILO freedom of association Conventions (i.e. Conventions Nos. 87, 98 and 151).
221.
Several major features merit attention.
The Canadian industrial relations system has a structure that at first sight mirrors that developed in the United States.
That is to say it is fairly closely regulated by legislation.
However there is also a strong tradition of informal contacts which have enabled the parties to reach voluntary agreements and to determine a not insignificant part of the relationship.
It has been suggested that this consultative process has been damaged.
Certainly the use of legislation has given that impression.
One major problem is that the Government, when it is using legislation in the public sector is at the same time carrying out two functions.
It is the democratic government acting to protect the economy but it is also the employer, altering the balance of its relationship with the trade union.
This gives ample opportunity for confusion, misunderstanding and a serious breakdown in internal relationships.
It is easy to overestimate this since normal relationships tend to carry on in many spheres, but the fear and suspicion were apparent in all three provinces.
Ironically it can be said that the greatest need is the re-establishment of normal industrial relations processes - consultation, conciliation and mutual understanding.
1.
Inflation control
222.
Whereas inflation control is an important task of government, a distinction has to be made between short-term measures aimed at bringing a situation under control, and a more permanent structure.
Action is taken under the first head because a particular problem overshadows the system.
This was the position in Alberta where the economic decline was sudden and serious.
It applied with somewhat less force to Ontario and Newfoundland although the economic problems in those provinces were clear.
The legislation in Ontario had already lapsed.
In all three provinces, however, it is the lasting effects of the legislation, or in the case of Ontario of practices springing from the period of legislation, which have to be measured.
223.
In each case there has no doubt been some lasting effect.
This involves either changes in the structure of collective bargaining or influences on the independent dispute resolution machinery which is the predominant safeguard in Alberta and Ontario and plays a small part in Newfoundland.
It is an assessment of this damage which is crucial to these cases.
2.
Consultation
224.
Although the Canadian system of industrial relations operates legally regulated bargaining procedures the importance of consultation remains.
This is particularly so where a government introduces proposed legislation to amend the rules governing that system and to change the relative position of the parties to the bargaining.
It has already been remarked that such consultation is doubly important where the Government seeks to alter bargaining structures in which it acts actually or indirectly as employer.
Time available for consultation must be adequate.
Obviously it may be limited by the urgency of action in face of economic problems.
Its effectiveness can be reduced by the attitude taken by the trade unions concerned.
But it is a truism that proposals should be openly discussed, clarified and doubts, fears and misunderstandings resolved before legislation takes its final form.
Otherwise suspicion grows and attention is diverted to lengthy and often untimely challenges in the courts.
225.
In Alberta the Government took the view that the rapid fall in economic prosperity called for urgent action.
Consultation appears to have been limited to a formal presentation of views to the legislature.
In Ontario there appears to have been ample opportunity for consultation which does not seem to have been used constructively.
In Newfoundland there has been a long-established and strong commitment to consultation which had been a valued feature of the relationship.
Unfortunately although there was some consultation the usual relationship appears to have broken down at least temporarily.
3.
Public servants - bargaining 	and the right to strike
226.
In most Canadian provinces, but not Newfoundland, the right to strike is withheld and access to independent binding arbitration takes its place.
This only occurs in very limited circumstances in Newfoundland.
To ensure the integrity of the system it is essential that the bargaining procedures are unfettered and that there is truly independent machinery to settle disputes of interest that are not agreed in bargaining.
Most of the details of the complaints, from all four cases, relate to one or other aspect of this crucial balance.
If the balance is seriously destroyed, leaving aside short-term economic intervention in time of emergency, then the ILO principles on freedom of association are called into question.
(a)
Collective bargaining
227.
It is not necessary to draw the Committee's attention to every complaint made of provisions that were felt to destroy the fair balance of collective bargaining.
Equally it is only necessary to underline the common view of governments that it has become important in times of economic stringency to introduce into public sector bargaining factors which correspond to the gloomy information a private employer is able to bring to the bargaining table by way of declining profits and slim order books.
228.
Several examples will suffice.
In Alberta a considerable number of changes to the machinery of bargaining have been promulgated.
In Newfoundland significant limitations in the bargaining units and in the participation of members of those units in strikes have been enacted.
It is not an easy task to assess the extent of the damage but trade unions point to flexible provisions which give rise to fear of loss of effectiveness.
(b)
Independent dispute resolution
229.
This aspect is vital to a proper system.
All the provinces have a Labour Relations Board that acts as an independent regulator and decision maker within the system.
Although some suspicions of bias were mentioned there is not a great deal of evidence to substantiate this.
Of more concern is the position of binding arbitration.
Disliked at times by both sides, it remains the crucial keystone to the alternative pattern of no strikes - independent dispute resolution.
230.
Arbitrators have a notoriously short professional life, and their decisions often give one side the view, almost invariably erroneous, that the arbitrator lacks independence.
There is no doubt that in times of economic stringency the pressures increase.
Governments resent a system which passes control of financial decisions to a third party.
They naturally tend to attempt to influence the arbitrator.
Asking that the economic background be taken into account seems inevitable and sensible.
Insisting on conformity to a norm destroys independence.
In practice the pressure tends to lie between these extremes.
It is essential that care be taken to protect independent arbitration:
both the mode of their appointment and their tenure must be carefully regulated.
The system inevitably, however reluctant the parties may be, insists that arbitrators  be trusted to act fairly and sensibly.
231.
Finally it has to be stressed that a large number of the grounds on which these complaints have been raised could be settled, not easily it is true, by agreement between the governments and the trade unions.
Until they are, the tendency will be to use legislation, powers and practices which damage the essential balance enshrined in ILO Conventions.
How far that has occurred is not a matter for me:
the detailed information above is intended as material on which the Committee on Freedom of Association reach its decisions.
* *   * 232.
In concluding this report, I wish to express my sincere appreciation to the Government of Canada and to those of the Provinces of Alberta, Ontario and Newfoundland for the efficient and courteous manner in which my mission was received and for the genuine spirit of co-operation in which the discussions with the representatives of the various governments took place.
I also wish to thank the Canadian Labour Congress, the National Union of Provincial Government Employees, the Canadian Teachers' Federation and all the provincial unions of public employees whose representatives were of the greatest assistance to me throughout the mission.
A special word of thanks is due to Ms. Lucille Caron, of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Mr. Brian Mallon of the Canadian Labour Congress and Mr. Derek Fudge of the National Union of Provincial Government Employees, who accompanied me at various stages of the mission and whose valuable assistance regarding practical arrangements was much appreciated.
Thanks is also due to Mr. John R.W. Whitehouse, Director of the ILO Office in Ottawa who, along with his efficient staff, facilitated practical arrangements.
Finally, I must express my deep indebtedness to Mr. W.R. Simpson, Chief of the Freedom of Association Branch of the ILO and Mrs. Jane Hodges also of that Branch, who accompanied me during my mission to Canada.
Their mastery of ILO principles, deep understanding of industrial relations, combined with their ability to work at speed, were essential to the completion of my mission and this report.
John Wood, LLM, CBE.
ANNEX
Meetings in Ottawa
(12-13 September 1985)
Mr. M. Dorais, Director-General, Policy and Liaison, Department of Labour of Canada together with Mrs. L. Caron, Mr. B. de Laat, Mr. A. Torobin, Mr. P. Sorokan, Ms. C. Racine, Mrs. J. Godon, Mr. J. Lynch, Mr. P. Hewson and Mr. Beaupré Bérard of the Federal Ministry; from the Alberta Ministry of Labour and Education Department, respectively:  Mr. A. Kennedy (Assistant Deputy Minister of Labour) and Ms. C. Mead;  from the Ontario Ministry of Labor and Treasury, respectively:  Ms. M. Kenny and Ms. J. Bass;  from the Newfoundland Ministry of Labour, Treasury Board and Department of Justice, respectively:  Mr. H. Noseworthy, Mr. L. Powell and Ms. D. Fry.
From the Union side, Ms. S. Carr, Secretary-Treasurer of the Canadian Labor Congress (CLC), Mr. J. Fryer, President of the National Union of Provincial Government Employees (NUPGE) and representatives of their affiliated organisations: Mr. F. March, Mr. J. Shields, Ms. M. Hedley, Mr. A. Kube, Mr. D. Bean, Mr. D. Fudge, Ms. L. Nicholson, Ms. N. Riche and Mr. F. Moorgen. Meetings were also held with representatives of the Canadian Teachers' Federation (CTF), namely, President Mr. F. Garritty, Mr. S. McDowell, Mr. R. Barkar, Ms. E. McMurphy, Mr. D. Yorke and Mrs. S. Hanley.
In Edmonton
(16-17 September 1985)
Assistant Deputy Minister Mr. A. Kennedy, Ms. C. Mead, Mr. R. Maybank, Mr. W. Sawadsky, Mr. P. Whittaker and Ms. D. Gares;  and representatives of the Alberta Union of Provincial Employees (AUPE), namely President Mr. J. Booth, Mr. T. Christian, Mr. G. Bourgeois, Mr. F. McRae, Mr. F. Moorgen, Ms. M. Sykes, Mr. S. Nymchuk, Ms. P. Wocknitz and Ms. K. Lilly as well as several other witnessess including Mr. B. Olien, Mr. D. Andersen, Mr. W. Leeson, Professor J. Robb and Mr. D. Werlin.
Meetings were also held with representatives of the Confederation of Alberta Faculty Associations:  Professor R. Heron, Mr. G. Unger, Mr. A. Mandelbaum and Professor M. Sandilands.
In Toronto
(18-20 September 1985)
Mr. D. Gilbert, Director of Policy Branch and Ms. J. Bass, Ms. K. Boney, Ms. M. Kenny, Mr. R. Peebles, Mr. Q. Silk and Mr. R. Huston;  and representatives of the Service Enployees International Union (SEIU), namely President Mr. T. Roscoe and Mr. J. van Beek together with legal counsel Mr. J. Sack, Mr. S. Barrett and Mr. Poskranzer;  the Ontario Public Service Employees Union (OPSEU), namely President Mr. J. Clancy, Mr. C. Paliare, Mr. A. Todd, Ms. J. Gates, Ms. S. Vallance, Mr. J. Bernard, Ms. R. Lees and Mr. R. Martin; the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE), namely President Ms. L. Nicholson, Mr. L. Kovacsi, Mr. D. Macleod, Mr. G. Williams, Mr. D. Foley; as well as the Ontario Teachers' Federations, namely, President Mr. G.Matte, Ms. S. Hildreth, Mr. D. McAndless, Mr. K. Kennedy, Mr. M. Buchanan, Mrs. M. Wilson, Mr. M. Green, Mr. J. Carey and Mr. D. Halesworth.
In St. Johns
(23-24 September 1985)
Assistant Deputy Minister Mr. H. Noseworthy, Ms. D. Fry, Mr. L. Powell, Mr. A. Andrews and Mr. J. O'Neill;  and representatives of the Newfoundland Association of Public Employees (NAPE), namely President Mr. F. March, Mr. E. Seward, Ms. M. Fleming, Mr. P. Ivany, Mr. E. Hogan, Ms. E. Price, Mr. D. Curtis and Mr. D. Harnett.
Case No. 1285
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL TRADE UNION CO-ORDINATING BODY AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF CHILE
156.
The complaint is set forth in a communication from the National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body dated 7 May 1984.
The Government replied by a communication dated 24 January 1985.
157.
Chile has ratified neither the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), nor the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
1.
Physical attack on a trade union leader
(a)
The complainant's allegations
158.
The complainant alleges that Mr. Clotario Blest, the founder of the National Association of Public Employees (ANEF) and of the Unitary Confederation of Workers (CUT), was the victim of a physical attack in May 1983. The attack was perpetrated the day after the leader had participated in the meeting at which the National Command of Workers was formed, bringing together the principal national trade union organisations of the country.
(b)
The Government's reply
159.
The Government states that at the time it deeply regretted the physical attack made on Mr. Clotario Blest, the founder of the National Association of Public Employees (ANEF). The aide-de-camp of the President of the Republic had therefore visited Mr. Blest's home in order to convey to him the personal feelings of the President of the Republic and his interest in the victim's health.
(c)
The Committee's conclusion
160.
The Committee observes that neither the complainant nor the Government has indicated who is thought to be responsible for the alleged attack or what form it took.
In these circumstances, the Committee does not consider that it is in possession of sufficient information to express an opinion on the matter.
2.
Allegations concerning detention
(a)
The complainant's allegations
161.
The complainant organisation makes the following allegations:
- On 9 June 1983 Mr. Roberto Arredondo, the national leader of the Bahía Employees' Federation and Chairman of the Regional Council of the Democratic Union of Workers (UDT) at Concepción, was detained for several hours by carabineros and accused of carrying invitations to the protest called by the National Command of Workers.
- On 10 June 1983 officials of the Police Department detained at Rancagua Marcos Molina, first director of the El Teniente area organisation and treasurer of the Caletones Industrial Trade Union, and Arturo Vera, first director of the Sewel y Mina Trade Union.
- Eduardo Sepúlveda, national leader of the "Peasant Triumph" National Confederation of Agricultural Workers, and José Morales, President of the Talca Provincial Federation of that organisation, were detained at Talca. Both arrests took place on 11 June 1983.
- In July 1983 Mr. Diego Lebitum, the secretary of Establecimientos Savory Trade Union No. 2, and Mr. Guillermo Saavedra Pinto, a member of the Union, were arrested while they were holding a peaceful public demonstration in the course of a legal strike called by their union.
- In October 1983 Rodolfo Seguel, Eugenio López, Manuel Rodríguez, Eduardo Díaz, Juan Meneses and Enés Zepeda, the trade union leaders of the "El Teniente" copper mine, were detained for several hours for holding a peaceful demonstration.
- Three workers were detained in October 1983 for carrying placards at a peaceful demonstration by 40 persons who were protesting at having been dismissed en bloc from their work at the Club de la Unión.
- In December 1983 Hernol Flores, the President of the ANEF, was detained for distributing leaflets on the public highway.
- In December 1983 three leaders of the Youth Department of the National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body were detained for reading a greeting to Raúl Alfonsín, the President of Argentina, in front of that country's Embassy in the capital.
- In March 1984 Manuel Bustos, the President of the National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body, and Sergio Troncoso, President of the Confederation of Building Workers, together with other persons, were detained for heading a peaceful protest march demanding the release of José Ruiz Di Giorgio.
(b)
The Government's reply
162.
With reference to the alleged detention of Mr. Roberto Arredondo, the trade union leader, the Government states that it has no information on this matter.
From the tenor of the complaint, the detention would appear to have been due to the carriage of pamphlets bearing instructions for one of the so-called "peaceful protests" called by sectors in opposition to the Government. According to the complainants, however, the person in question was then released.
The Government stresses the need for complainants to furnish more information so that an answer may be given, for complaints made in that way are lacking in seriousness.
163.
With reference to the alleged detention of Mr. Marcos Molina Catalán and Mr. Arturo Vera Mauro, the Government states that at about 2.20 p.m. on 11 June 1983, as those persons were approaching a taxi loaded with leaflets inviting participation in actions directed against the Government, they were intercepted by officers of the Rancagua Police Department, who arrested them and took them to the police station.
After interrogation at the police station, where they spent six hours, they were released.
There are no legal proceedings in progress against them at the present time and both are at liberty.
164.
With regard to the alleged detention of Eduardo Sepúlveda and José Morales, the Government states that, "owing to the time that has elapsed, it has not been possible to confirm these complaints".
165.
With reference to the detention of Mr. Diego Lebitum and Mr. Guillermo Saavedra Pinto, the Government states that, owing to the time that has elapsed, it has not been possible to check the accuracy of this complaint. If it was accurate, the matter was purely one for the police and obviously, as has been explained in other cases, detainees are released once the police have checked their identity and address.
166.
With reference to the detentions which occurred in October 1983, the Government states that, when a breach of public order is attempted, the police, in discharge of their obligation to ensure the maintenance of order and civic peace, proceed to arrest the perpetrators in order to check their identify and address and, if the situation so warrants, summon them to appear before the local police court which deals with offences of this kind.
The cases mentioned by the complainant organisation did not reach the stage of being heard by the competent local police court.
167.
With reference to the detention of Mr. Hernol Flores, the Government states that there is no record of his detention and that, since neither the date nor the place of detention nor the authority which ordered it are mentioned, the information is insufficient for the purpose of verifying the complaint.
As to the alleged detention of three leaders of the Youth Department of the National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body, the Government states that this complaint is based on a routine police operation.
A group of persons obstructed the free movement of pedestrians and access to the Embassy of the Argentine Republic at Santiago.
The police, in the performance of their duty to maintain public order, disbanded this unauthorised public meeting and, when the identity and addresses of those responsible had been checked, they were released.
Consequently, the Government continues, this complaint has nothing to do with freedom of association.
168.
The Government states further that Mr. Manuel Bustos and Mr. Sergio Troncoso were detained, together with five other persons, by carabineros on duty on the public highway on 22 March 1984 and taken to the First Carabineros Station.
The grounds for their detention were that, together with a group of 50 persons, they went on a march through central streets with the Lawcourts Building as their goal.
This procession was held without permission from the authorities and in such a way as to cause obstructions to pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
These persons were released immediately after their identity and addresses had been checked and they had been summoned to appear before the local police court for the offence presumed to have been committed.
(c)
The Committee's conclusions
169.
The Committee observes that, with reference to some of the alleged detentions, the Government states that the lack of data from the complainant or the lapse of time has made it impossible to verify the facts.
With reference to other detentions, the Government has indicated that the facts had nothing to do with freedom of association or that the persons concerned had been held for several hours for the purpose of checking their identity and addresses, questioning them and, where appropriate, summoning them to appear before the local police court.
170.
The Committee concludes that it is not in possession of sufficient information to express a separate opinion on each of the alleged detentions.
The Committee wishes to point out, however, that the number of instances in which trade union leaders and trade unionists are alleged to have been detained and summonsed or questioned runs to about a score.
In these circumstances, while observing that the allegations date back in most cases to 1983 and that the persons in question are at liberty, the Committee considers it useful to repeat that measures depriving trade union leaders and trade unionists of their freedom on grounds related to their trade union activity, even where they are merely summoned or questioned for a short period, constitute an obstacle to the exercise of trade union rights.
3.
Allegations concerning demonstrations
(a)
The complainant's allegations
171.
The complainant organisation makes the following allegations:
- In October 1983 a public demonstration by 70 trade union organisations in the Plaza 11 de Septiembre at Valparaiso was violently prevented. The repressive measures left several persons injured and 42 in detention.
- In November 1983 the Administration at Rancagua withheld permission for marches preparatory to an action proposed by the Workers' Provincial Command of Cachapoal. Similarly the Administration withheld permission for an action by the same organisation in the place it had chosen.
- On 14 December 1983 300 self-employed workers (itinerant vendors) were subjected to brutal repressive action in the centre of Santiago and had to seek refuge in Santiago Cathedral.
These workers, organised in the Itinerant Vendors' Trade Union, in addition to suffering physical acts of oppression, were subjected to an illegal scrutiny of their merchandise and prevented from working in the streets of Santiago by a security force composed of special squads of carabineros and civilians reinforced by dogs specially trained to attack human beings.
- In January 1984 a demonstration called by the National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body was violently put down.
Carabineros arrested 27 persons and left about 10 injured.
(b)
The Government's reply
172.
With reference to the allegations concerning the demonstration in the Plaza 11 de Septiembre at Valparaiso, the Government states that this accusation suffers from vagueness and cannot be verified owing to the time which has elapsed.
Generally speaking, the Government points out that the police force has the inescapable duty of maintaining public order and keeping the civic peace and that, if a breach of public order has been attempted, the police obviously has to intervene.
In such cases the persons presumed to have been arrested, whose names are not given, are released after their identity and addresses have been checked, unless they are summoned to appear before the competent local police court.
173.
The Government states further that the Regional Administration at Rancagua withheld permission for marches owing to the problems they create for pedestrian and vehicular traffic. Furthermore the Workers' Provincial Command of Cachapoal is not a trade union organisation and has no legal personality, legal existence or known address.
Its presumed leaders are not registered and it is not known who elected them or for how long.
It is a de facto body accountable to no one.
174.
With reference to the alleged oppression of itinerant vendors, the Government states that it has not been possible to confirm this complaint.
The Government points out that the police periodically dislodge and clear out of the central streets of the city of Santiago a group of itinerant vendors who set themselves up in the roadway and obstruct passers-by, because these itinerant vendors hold no municipal permit or licence and pay no taxes and because the goods they offer for sale are faulty and harmful to the health and hygiene of the population.
For these reasons the police expel them from the central area of the city.
175.
With reference to the alleged violent suppression of the demonstration called by the National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body, the Government states that this complaint cannot be answered because the exact date and place of the occurrence and the names of the persons presumed to have been arrested are not given.
With regard to the presumed detention of persons, the Government states in general terms that, in the exercise of the inalienable duty that vests in every authority in any country to maintain public order, the police are empowered to arrest any persons who on the public highway, in defiance of laws and regulations, proceed to perform acts and deeds which may constitute some offence or punishable act.
(c)
The Committee's conclusions
176.
The Committee observes that, with reference to two of the allegations, the Government states that the complainants have not furnished enough information.
The Committee likewise notes that, according to the Government, the Administration at Rancagua withheld permission for marches preparatory to an action proposed by the Workers' Provincial Command of Cachapoal owing to the problems they would create for pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
Lastly the Committee observes that the Government has been unable to confirm the alleged oppression of street vendors in the centre of Santiago, although it states that these workers are periodically expelled from the central area by the police for non-compliance with the administrative rules concerning safety, hygiene, taxes, etc.
In these circumstances the Committee reiterates in general terms that trade union rights include the right to organise public demonstrations.
Although the prohibition of demonstrations on the public highway in the busiest parts of a city, when it is feared that disturbances might occur, does not constitute an infringement of trade union rights, the authorities should strive to reach agreement with the organisers of the demonstration to enable it to be held in some other place where there would be no fear of disturbances.
4.
Allegations concerning violations of the internal 	autonomy of trade union organisations
(a)
The complainant's allegations
177.
The complainant organisation makes the following allegations:
- In June 1983 the Provincial Inspectorate of Labour at Santiago removed Ricardo Lecaros, the Vice-President of the Metallurgical Confederation (CONSTRAMET), from office for having been tried under the Act on the Internal Security of the State.
- In October 1983 the Provincial Directorate of Labour at Rancagua prevented Rodemil Aranda and Marcos Molina, the present leaders, whose dismissal is under review by the courts, from standing for election in the Caletones Industrial Trade Union.
The same Provincial Directorate also suspended the record of the election held in the Caletones Industrial Trade Union.
- In October 1983 the Provincial Director of Labour at Rancagua requisitioned the record books of the Caletones Industrial and Professional Trade Unions and the Sewel y Minas Industrial and Professional Trade Unions in order to place them at the disposal of the undertaking for use in support of its case in the proceedings against Rodolfo Seguel.
(b)
The Government's reply
178.
The Government states that Mr. Lecaros was sentenced for incitement to illegal paralysis of national activities, an offence defined in the State Security Act.
This meant that he did not meet the legal requirements for appointment as a trade union leader, since section 21 of Legislative Decree No. 2756 on the organisation of trade unions requires inter alia that in order to be a trade union leader he should "not have been sentenced for a crime or an offence punishable by a severe penalty or for an offence relating to the administration of trade union property, or be currently accused of one".
In these circumstances Mr. Lecaros was disqualified for the performance of trade union functions.
179.
The Government adds that, in virtue of the aforementioned law, a person placed under a disqualification by decision of the Directorate of Labour may appeal to the courts within a time-limit of five days.
According to the Government, the information furnished in the complaint is insufficient and it is necessary to know in what court and on what date the person concerned appealed against the order of disqualification, so that more information may be supplied.
180.
With reference to the allegations concerning Mr. Rodemil Aranda and Mr. Marcos Molina, the Government states that these workers could not stand for election as trade union leaders because they were not workers of the undertaking and proceedings brought by the same persons were pending before the Second Court at Rancagua petitioning that the measure discontinuing their contracts of employment adopted by the "El Teniente" Division of CODELCO-Chile should be declared null and void.
181.
With reference to the suspension of the record of the election held in the Caletones Industrial Trade Union, the Government states that the labour inspectors, in their capacity as authenticating officers, were checking the election on the premises of the trade union when they were notified of a decision of the Court of Appeals at Rancagua directing that the election record should be suspended for such time as the proceedings against three leaders were pending.
The election eventually took effect on 29 January 1984 after this had been authorised by the Court of Appeals at Rancagua.
182.
Furthermore the Government states that it is not true that the record books of the Caletones Industrial and Professional Trade Unions and the Sewel y Minas Industrial and Professional Trade Unions were requisitioned.
In reality the labour inspector placed a copy of the Unions' records at the disposal of the court for use as evidence in the interests of a better decision in the proceedings.
(c)
The Committee's conclusions
183.
The Committee takes note that, according to the Government, the record books of the Caletones and Sewel y Minas Industrial and Professional Trade Unions were not requisitioned but that the labour inspector placed a copy of their records at the court's disposal for use as evidence in the interests of a better decision in the proceedings against the leader Rodolfo Seguel.
184.
The Committee observes that the other facts alleged arose as a result of failure to meet the requirements laid down by law for appointment as a trade union leader.
One case concerns the disqualification of a trade union leader who was sentenced for illegally paralysing national activities;
in another case two leaders could not stand for election because they were not workers of the undertaking, and in a third case the judicial authority ordered the trade union elections suspended for such time as proceedings were pending against three leaders.
The Committee wishes to point out in this connection that, when national legislation provides that all trade union leaders shall belong to the occupation in respect of which the organisation carries on its activities, the principles of freedom of association may be impaired.
In fact, in such cases, the dismissal of a worker who is a trade union leader may, by causing him to lose his status as a trade union officer, infringe the freedom of activity of the organisation and its right to elect representatives in freedom, and may even leave the way open for acts of interference by the employer [see Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining, General Survey by the Committee of Experts, Report III (Part 4 B), ILC, 69th Session, 1983, para. 158].
Similarly, a law which generally prohibits access to trade union office because of any conviction is incompatible with the principles of freedom of association, when the activity condemned is not prejudicial to exercising trade union office with integrity.
5.
Allegations concerning raids on trade union 	premises
(a)
The complainant's allegations
185.
The complainant organisation makes the following allegations:
- Arturo Martínez, the President of the National Graphic Confederation, made an early application for amparo (enforcement of constitutional rights) on 13 June 1983 as a result of a visit which carabineros paid to the Confederation's headquarters, without producing a judicial warrant, for the purpose of questioning the caretaker about the activities carried on by that leader.
- In June 1983 the headquarters of the National Federation of Petroleum Trade Unions at Santiago was raided.
- In November 1983 carabineros made an illegal and violent raid on the headquarters of the Independent Building Workers' Trade Union No. 2 of Maipú while the members and their families were holding a celebration there.
Gerardo Rodríguez, a member of the Union, was arrested in the raid and later released without charges.
The carabineros threatened to interrupt any other activity of the trade union in the same way.
- In March 1984 a group of five persons armed with bludgeons and chains made a night attack on the headquarters of the National Association of Public Employees (ANEF).
This was the third attack on the headquarters.
(b)
The Government's reply
186.
The Government states that it fails to see what connection the facts alleged concerning the National Graphic Confederation can have with freedom of association.
According to the Government, the fact that the person presumed to be affected - who has never been arrested - has made an early application to the courts for amparo shows that his rights are being properly protected.
187.
With reference to the alleged raid on the headquarters of the National Federation of Petroleum Trade Unions, the Government states that it has no information as to its having happened, and notes that there is no indication as to who made the search, or why.
188.
With reference to the alleged raid on the headquarters of the Independent Building Workers' Trade Union No. 2 of Maipú, the Government states that this trade union applied to the Court of Appeals at Santiago for protection. On 9 December 1983 the Court ruled denying the application.
Those concerned lodged an appeal with the Supreme Court, which also rejected it, and the dossier was accordingly closed.
189.
With reference to the alleged night attack on the headquarters of the ANEF, the Government states that this is "purely a police matter outside the Government's control".
In order to provide more information it would have been necessary to know the date and, if applicable, the court before which the charge was laid.
(c)
The Committee's conclusions
190.
The Committee takes note of the Government's reply that it has no information concerning the alleged raid on the National Federation of Petroleum Trade Unions and that the Supreme Court rejected the appeal lodged in connection with the alleged raid on the headquarters of the Independent Building Workers' Trade Union No. 2 of Maipú.
191.
The Committee observes, on the other hand, that the Government has not expressly denied that the visit paid by carabineros to the headquarters of the National Graphic Confederation was effected without producing a judicial warrant, and that it has confirmed that an application was made to the court in that connection.
192.
In these circumstances, although it observes that neither the complainant nor the Government has furnished sufficiently detailed information, the Committee reiterates the principle that the right of the inviolability of union premises also necessarily implies that the public authorities cannot enter such premises without prior authorisation or without having obtained a legal warrant to do so [see for example 230th Report, Case No. 1200 (Chile), para. 610, and 238th Report, Case No. 1169 (Nicaragua), para. 227].
6.
Allegations concerning acts of anti-trade 	union discrimination
(a)
The complainant's allegations
193.
The complainant organisation makes the following allegations:
- In July 1983 the firm of Vercovich Ltda. took reprisals against the workers who had participated in a legal strike, and the workers were unable to induce the competent authority to correct the situation.
Twenty-five per cent of the workers involved in the collective bargaining were dismissed and the wages of the remainder were arbitrarily reduced.
- In August 1983 eight leaders of the Industria Hucke at Valparaiso were dismissed from that undertaking in virtue of section 13, clause (f), of Legislative Decree No. 2200 under which staff may be dismissed if the undertaking's needs so dictate.
The leaders affected were:  Luis Palma Romero, José Márquez, Carlos Carreño Castro, Oscar Bonilla, Manuel Cárdenas, Pedro Cortés Fredes, José Villalón Tapia and Santiago Rubio Sepúlveda.
- In September 1983 the City Hotel threatened to dismiss workers who did not give up the trade union and actually dismissed two workers without the competent authority intervening to correct that situation.
- The Hotel Carrera dismissed Juana Santos, chief telephone operator, for her prominent participation in a legal strike.
- Abraham Santángel was dismissed 48 hours after being elected President of Industria Hucke Trade Union No. 1.
- In November 1983 the Empresa Nacional del Carbón (ENACAR) dismissed the trade union leaders of Schwager Trade Union No. 5:  Luis Badilla, Víctor Jaramillo and Juan Flores.
Furthermore the Union was dissolved by court order.
- In December 1983 the Hotel Galerías dismissed 12 persons on the pretext of staff cuts, while at the same time offering pay improvements to all who gave up the Union.
- In January 1984 the firm of Parro, Alvariño y Cía. dismissed two trade union leaders for presenting draft collective agreements.
- The firm of Goodyear dismissed Juan Carlos Martínez, the leader of Trade Union No. 2, in January 1984.
(b)
The Government's reply
194.
With reference to the allegations concerning the firm of Vercovich Ltda. , the Government states that it cannot answer these because the necessary information (date, names, etc.) has not been supplied.
The Government also reports that there is no record to show that the persons presumed to have been affected have made use of the statutory remedies.
195.
With reference to the dismissal of eight trade union leaders from the Industria Hucke at Valparaiso, the Government states that on 10 August 1983 the contracts of the trade union leaders of Trade Union No. 1 of the firm of Hucke at Valparaiso (Mr. Carlos Carreño Castro, Mr. Oscar Bonilla, Mr. Luis Palma Romero, Mr. José Marquez and Mr. Manuel Cárdenas) were terminated by agreement;
these persons signed discharges before the Labour Inspectorate stating that the employer owed them nothing and that they had no complaint to make.
The leaders of Trade Union No. 2 (Mr. Pedro Cortés Fredes, Mr. Santiago Rubio Sepúlveda and Mr. José Villalón Tapia) were dismissed and proceeded to lay before the courts judicial complaints against the undertaking.
The Labour Inspectorate at Valparaiso applied to the firm an administrative fine of 20 Development Units in cash on 12 August 1983.
196.
With reference to the allegations concerning the City Hotel, the Government states that this firm has reported that the trade union is fully operative and its leadership is functioning.
197.
With reference to the dismissal of the trade unionist Juana Santos the Government explains that, during the legal strike called by the workers' trade union at the Hotel Carrera, the firm temporarily engaged a few persons to do the essential jobs needed to keep the hotel in operation.
The person mentioned, who holds no trade union office and who was working as a telephonist, sabotaged the use of the telephone equipment by obstructing the work of her temporary replacement, and for this the firm dismissed her.
The person concerned complained of the firm to the courts, which sentenced the employer to pay compensation.
198.
With reference to the allegations concerning the firm of ENACAR, the Government states that Trade Union No. 5 was declared dissolved for lack of members by a judicial decision dated 2 November 1983.
The firm of ENACAR offered each of the union's leaders, Mr. Luis Badilla, Mr. Víctor Jaramillo and Mr. Juan Flores, a post because when they were leaders of the trade union they did no work.
However, they did not accept the work which the firm offered them and their contracts were withdrawn from them on 25 November 1983.
199.
With reference to the dismissal of workers of the Hotel Galerías, the Government states that these dismissals were due to economic mismanagement of the undertaking.
It is not true that workers were dismissed to induce them to give up the trade union.
The fact of the matter was that four persons were dismissed at that time for reasons of expense, and that this did not affect the existence of the trade union at all.
200.
With reference to the allegations concerning the firm of Parro, the Government states that the two persons dismissed as reported in the complaint were dismissed before the collective bargaining session, so that when the draft collective agreement was presented those persons were not workers of the undertaking.
They signed a discharge before the Labour Inspectorate and were paid everything due to them.
The collective bargaining was concluded successfully with the signing of a collective agreement for two years ending in January 1986.
201.
With reference to the firm of Goodyear, the Government states that Mr. Juan Carlos Martínez was President of Operatives' Trade Union No. 1 and that when he was dismissed he was not a trade union leader.
In 1982 proceedings were taken to remove him from office on the grounds that he had misappropriated money intended for the maintenance of the ambulance and for staff recreational activities.
The court removed him from office and the Court of Appeals confirmed the removal.
(c)
The Committee's conclusions
202.
The Committee takes note that the Government states that it cannot answer the allegations concerning dismissals from the firm of Vercovich because the complainant organisation has not supplied sufficient information.
The Committee takes note further that, according to the Government, the three leaders of the firm of ENACAR to whom the complainant refers did not accept an offer of work in the undertaking and that five trade union leaders of the Hucke Company at Valparaiso terminated their contracts by agreement with the undertaking.
The Committee also notes that, according to the Government, the dismissals that took place in the Hotel Galerías were only four in number, did not affect the existence of the trade union at all and were due to economic mismanagement of the undertaking.
Lastly the Committee notes that, according to the Government, the persons dismissed from the firm of Parro were dismissed before the draft collective agreement was presented and that Juan Carlos Martínez (of the firm of Goodyear) was not a trade union leader when he was dismissed because the judicial authority had removed him from office for misappropriation of funds.
203.
The Committee observes, on the other hand, that the legitimacy of other cases of dismissal alleged by the complainant has not been substantiated by the Government:  namely, the dismissal of Abraham Santángel (which is said to have taken place 48 hours after his election as President of Industria Hucke Trade Union No. 1) and the two alleged dismissals from the City Hotel.
The Government acknowledges, on the other hand, that the Labour Inspectorate of Valparaiso applied an administrative fine to the Hucke Company because of the dismissal of three leaders of Trade Union No. 2 and that in the case of the dismissal of the trade unionist Juana Santos the courts sentenced the Hotel Carrera to pay compensation.
204.
In these circumstances, the Committee draws the Government's attention to the principle that no worker should be subjected to discrimination in employment on the grounds of his trade union membership or activity, whether past or present [see, for example, 235th Report, Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029 (Turkey), para. 38].
In this connection the Committee has indicated on previous occasions that one way of protecting trade union leaders is to provide that they cannot be dismissed either during the performance of their duties or for a certain period of time after the expiry of their mandate except, of course, where a serious offence has been committed [see, for example, 217th Report, Case No. 1063 (Costa Rica), para. 151].
7.
Other allegations
(a)
The complainant's allegations
205.
The complainant organisation makes the following allegations:
- In August 1983 Rodolfo Seguel was prevented from leaving the country to attend the Congress of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU).
The ban was imposed by Judge Hernán Cereceda.
- In October 1983 the Military Junta approved an Act under which the liability for any act of violence perpetrated on the occasion of public protests or demonstrations automatically vests in those who call for such acts.
The Act provides penalties of imprisonment, restricted residence or exile.
It is perfectly obvious that this Act is directed specifically against the National Command of Workers and any other dissident organisation which calls for the expression of opposition to the regime.
- In January 1984 the Chuquicamata Mining Division prevented Rodolfo Seguel, the President of the Confederation of Copper Workers, from entering that mine.
- The workers of the Minimum Employment Programme (PEM) and the Employment Programme for Heads of Households (POJH) do not enjoy the right to organise themselves in trade unions and to present petitions.
(b)
The Government's reply
206.
The Government states that the Code of Penal Procedure allows a judge who is trying a person for the presumed commission of an offence to fix bail for him on condition that he does not leave the country and thus flout the course of justice.
The courts and judges are entirely independent in administering justice in Chile. Consequently the fact that Mr. Hernán Cereceda Bravo, Judge of the Court of Appeals at Santiago, has forbidden Mr. Rodolfo Seguel to leave the country is a matter within his sole jurisdiction.
207.
The Government also states that the allegation that Mr. Rodolfo Seguel, the trade union leader, was prevented from entering the Chuquicamata Mining Division could not be verified owing to the vagueness of the information supplied.
There is no indication of the exact date, the place of occurrence, the authority which denied him entry, etc., particulars which are needed for a conclusive reply.
208.
Furthermore the Government states that the Act objected to by the complainant is Act No. 18256, published in the Diario Oficial of 27 October 1983, which made some changes in Act No. 12927 of 1958 on State Security.
The purpose of the Act in question is to punish those who promote or incite to demonstrations designed to disturb public order, incite demonstrations designed to overthrow the constituted Government, incite demonstrations designed to paralyse the country or promote a breach of order and public peace.
The Act does not punish protest or public expression of opinion in opposition to the economic, social security or housing policy of the Government.
The offence defined by this Act consists not in "protesting" but in promoting or inciting acts which violate the public peace.
The text reads verbatim as follows:  "(i) Any person who, without permission, promotes or calls for collective public acts in streets, squares and other places in public use and who promotes or incites demonstrations of any other kind that allow or facilitate a breach of the public peace."
These offences are to be punishable by penalties of rigorous imprisonment, restricted residence or exile for the medium term in any of its degrees, i.e. deprivation of liberty for not less than 61 days and not more than five years.
Without prejudice to the foregoing, the perpetrators of these offences will be jointly and severally liable for any damage caused by reason or on the occasion of the aforementioned acts, irrespective of such liability also laying with the material perpetrators of those acts.
209.
The Government adds that there is not the slightest doubt that there is a relationship of cause and effect between a "protest call" of the kind defined by the Act and the consequences that may arise from it.
Since May 1983, when the first "protests" began, they have steadily grown more violent and have accounted for a great many dead and injured.
Those who "call for protests" cannot be ignorant of the consequences those calls will have.
The judge who investigates the facts will weigh the evidence and the judgement in these proceedings conscientiously as provided by section 27 of the State Security Act.
210.
Lastly the Government states that PEM and POJH are a form of unemployment benefit, and that their beneficiaries consequently cannot organise themselves in trade unions.
The right to organise in Chile, as under all the systems of legislation in the world, vests only in workers who have an employment relationship with their employer.
(c)
The Committee's conclusions
211.
The Committee takes note that, according to the Government, the prohibition on leaving the country which was imposed on Mr. Rodolfo Seguel, the trade union leader, was ordered by a judge of the Court of Appeals in virtue of the Code of Penal Procedure which allows a person sub judice for the presumed commission of an offence to be prevented from leaving the country.
The Committee also notes that the Government states that, for lack of information and details from the complainant, it has been unable to verify the allegation that Mr. Rodolfo Seguel, the trade union leader, was prevented from entering the Chuquicamata Mining Division.
212.
With reference to Act No. 18256, published in the Diario Oficial of 27 October 1983, which punishes "any person who, without permission, promotes or calls for collective public acts in streets, squares and other places in public use and who promotes or incites demonstrations of any other kind that allow or facilitate a breach of the public peace", the Committee wishes to point out in this connection that the requirement of administrative permission to hold public meetings and demonstrations is not objectionable per se from the standpoint of the principles of freedom of association.
The maintenance of public order is not incompatible with the right to hold demonstrations so long as the authorities responsible for public order reach agreement with the organisers of a demonstration concerning the place where it will be held and the manner in which it will take place.
213.
Lastly, with reference to the denial to the workers of the Minimum Employment Programme (PEM) and the Employment Programme for Heads of Households (POJH) of the right to organise themselves in trade unions and to present petitions, the Committee takes note that, according to the Government, PEM and POJH are a form of unemployment benefit, with the result that their beneficiaries cannot organise because in Chile the right to organise vests only in workers who have an employment relationship with their employer.
In this connection, the Committee points out to the Government that, in virtue of the principles of freedom of association, all workers - with the sole exception of members of the armed forces and police - should have the right to establish and to join organisations of their own choosing.
The criterion for determining the persons covered by that right, therefore, is not based on the existence of an employment relationship with an employer, which is often non-existent, for example in the case of agricultural workers, self-employed workers in general or those who practise liberal professions and who should nevertheless enjoy the right to organise.
Consequently the Committee requests the Government to take measures with a view to recognising the right of the workers of PEM and POJH to organise.
* *   * 214.
Lastly the complainant organisation presents a series of allegations which have already been examined by the Committee in connection with other cases, or which do not relate to specific breaches of freedom of association.
The Committee's recommendations
215.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
In view of the gravity of the allegations in this case the Committee deeply regrets that the Government has not supplied sufficiently detailed replies to all the allegations.
It therefore reminds the Government of the importance which it attaches to the following principles:
(a)
Measures depriving trade union leaders and trade unionists of their freedom on grounds related to their trade union activity, even where they are merely summoned or questioned for a short period, constitute an obstacle to the exercise of trade union rights.
(b)
Trade Union rights include the right to organise public demonstrations.
The maintenance of public order is not incompatible with the right to hold demonstrations so long as the authorities responsible for public order reach agreement with the organisers of a demonstration concerning the place where it will be held and the manner in which it will take place.
(c)
According to the latest General Survey of the Committee of Experts, national legislation which provides that all trade union leaders shall belong to the occupation in respect of which the organisation carries on its activities may impair the principles of freedom of association.
In such a case, the dismissal of a worker who is a trade union leader causes him to lose his status as a trade union officer, and impedes the freedom of activity of the organisation and its right to elect its representatives in freedom.
By placing a trade union leader in this situation the employer interferes in trade union activity.
(d)
Similarly, a law which generally prohibits access to trade union office because of any conviction is incompatible with the principles of freedom of association, when the activity condemned is not prejudicial to exercising trade union office with integrity.
(e)
The inviolability of union premises implies that the public authorities should not enter such premises without prior authorisation or without having obtained a legal warrant to do so.
(f)
No worker should be subjected to discrimination in employment on the grounds of his trade union membership or activity, whether past or present.
The Committee has indicated on previous occasions that the protection of trade union leaders can only be properly ensured if they cannot be dismissed either during the performance of their functions or for a certain period of time after the expiry of their mandate, except in cases where a serious fault has been committed.
(g)
The Committee requests the Government to take measures with a view to recognising the right of the workers of the Minimum Employment Programme (PEM) and the Employment Programme for Heads of Households (POJH) to organise.
Case No. 1287
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL FEDERATION OF ELECTRICAL AND POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS EMPLOYEES AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA
216.
The complaint is made in a communication from the National Federation of Electrical and Postal Communications Employees dated 16 May 1984.
The Government replied by a communication dated 24 June 1985.
217.
Costa Rica has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Allegations of the complainant
218.
The complainant alleges in its communication of 16 May 1984 that, in violation of the collective agreement, Mr. Guido Núñez Román, General Secretary of the Industrial Union of Electrical and Telecommunications Workers, was dismissed in May 1981 for having denounced cases of discrimination in the National Power and Light Company and corruption in certain quarters in the use of that company's property.
The complainant states that the First Labour Court ruled in Mr. Núñez Román's favour, observing that the collective agreement had been violated by failure to follow the prescribed procedure.
The Company appealed to the superior Labour Court which, in 1984, delivered judgement on the same lines as the Court of First Instance.
In April 1984 the Company filed an application for cassation.
219.
The complainant further alleges that the collective agreement in force is repeatedly violated in the National Power and Light Company, specifically in the following instances:
(a)
wage adjustment of 20 per cent for certain workers (section 11);
(b)
seniority adjustment of 7.5 per cent in accordance with the collective agreement (section 69);
(c)
appointment of staff at foreman level without holding a competition (section 88);
(d)
refusal to give the Savings and Loan Fund to the workers, leaving it in the Company's name (section 89);
(e)
refusal to grant other rights established for all workers in the collective agreement (sections 61, 54, 25, 26 and others).
220.
Lastly the complainant makes a series of allegations which go back many years or which do not refer to violations of freedom of association.
B.
The Government's reply
221.
The Government states in its communication of 24 June 1985 that, in the case of the dismissal of Guido Núñez Román, the procedure of dismissal without employer's liability was applied to him for having insulted, libelled and defamed the management and high officials of the undertaking in various documents which were signed or authorised by Guido Núñez and which were circulated not only within the Company but also among the public.
Although the case was, relatively speaking, won by Guido Núñez at first instance, the Court stated:
"There is no claim to lost wages under section 82 of the Labour Code because, although the offence with which the plaintiff was charged was not sufficiently serious to warrant dismissal, the fact is that, in the opinion of the undersigned, there was always a disrespect for the employer's representatives ...".
Later in the same judgement, the Court explained that the plaintiff had uttered his expressions with " animus defendendi " and not with " animus injuriandi ", and on that ground it declared the dismissal null and void.
Both parties appealed against the judgement delivered at first instance inasmuch as the plaintiff, among other petitions, asked for reinstatement, which had been refused at first instance;
then the Superior Labour Court declared:
"And there is no doubt that, in view of the foregoing, the conclusion reached is that the grounds for dismissal were not met because the "intention to insult" was lacking, since the expression was framed in general terms, without specifying persons ...".
For these reasons the Court considered that, although the offence had been committed, dismissal was not the right penalty in view of the circumstances surrounding the case.
222.
The Government adds that, on 16 April 1984, Guido Núñez and the Company appealed against the judgement of the Superior Labour Court.
The Second Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice concluded on 3 October 1984 that "in view of the phrases which occur repeatedly in the dossier - and which therefore need not be repeated - if we take into account this background, the plaintiff's position in defence of the workers and what he said in this letter in, perhaps, rather rough phrases, the truth is that he did not address them to a particular person or persons but in general terms to those running the Company.
In these circumstances, there were insufficient grounds for punishing the plaintiff with dismissal rather than a disciplinary penalty of another magnitude, because the truth is that he did not use those phrases in his personal capacity ... .
Therefore he must be excused payment of the costs because, although he committed the offence, it was not of such gravity as to warrant his removal from his post, in this case owing to the circumstances surrounding the events".
Guido Núñez was again refused reinstatement by this Court, so that the only thing he was granted by the aforementioned courts at the conclusion of the proceedings was the award of costs.
223.
Lastly, with regard to the alleged violations of certain provisions of the collective agreement in force in the National Power and Light Company, the Government states that the instances referred to by the complainant are being discussed and clarified before the courts.
C.
Conclusions of the Committee
224.
With regard to the alleged dismissal of Mr. Guido Núñez Román, the trade union leader, in May 1981 for having denounced cases of discrimination and corruption in the National Power and Light Company, the Committee notes that that Company applied to him the procedure of dismissal without employer's liability for having insulted, libelled and defamed the management and high officials of the undertaking.
225.
The Committee observes that, on 3 October 1984, the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice concluded at last instance that Mr. Guido Núñez Román's conduct constituted "insufficient grounds for punishing the plaintiff with dismissal rather than a disciplinary penalty of another magnitude, because the truth is that he did not use those phrases in his personal capacity ..." ;
later, furthermore, the Supreme Court states that the offence was not of such gravity as to warrant his removal from his post.
The Committee further observes that, although the aforementioned judicial decision recognised Mr. Núñez Román's right to payment of his costs, it denied him reinstatement in his employment.
226.
In these circumstances, the Committee can only conclude that the dismissal of Mr. Guido Núñez Román, the trade union leader, was motivated by his trade union activities, and constituted anti-trade union discrimination contrary to Convention No. 98.
The Committee consequently requests the Government to take steps with a view to the reinstatement of this trade union leader in his employment.
227.
More generally the Committee wishes to point out that section 82 of the Labour Code of Costa Rica provides in its second subsection that: "If a dispute arises subsequent to the dismissal and due proof of the reason is not forthcoming, the employee shall be entitled to payment of the wages due in lieu of notice and to any leaving grant which may be due to him and, by way of damages, to the wages which he would have earned from the date of the termination of the contract to the date on which a final judgment is given against the employer".
In this connection, the Committee draws the Government's attention to the principle that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination - as set out in Convention No. 98 - is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition that they pay the compensation prescribed by law for cases of unjustified dismissal, to get rid of any worker when the true reason for the dismissal is his trade union membership or activity.
This in fact means that an employer, by paying compensation, can dismiss any member of his staff, for trade union or other activities, the public authorities being powerless to prevent him from doing so.
Protection is particularly desirable in the case of trade union officials who, in order to be able to carry out their duties in full independence, must have the guarantee that they will not be prejudiced on account of the mandate which they hold from their trade unions.
This guarantee is also necessary to secure respect for the principle that workers' organisations have the right to elect their representatives in full freedom [see, for example, 211th Report, Case No. 1053 (Dominican Republic), para. 163].
Furthermore the Committee observes that the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations has been emphasising to the Government for some years the importance of adopting specific provisions to establish remedies and sanctions for acts of anti-union discrimination.
The Committee requests the Government to take steps in that direction.
228.
Lastly, with regard to the allegation concerning violations of certain provisions of the collective agreement in force in the Power and Light Company, the Committee wishes to recall that the relevant principle is that disputes arising over the interpretation or application of the provisions of collective agreements should be settled by bodies independent of the parties [see, for example, 236th Report, Case No. 1206 (Peru), para. 509].
In this connection the Committee observes that the alleged violations are being clarified before the courts.
Recommendations of the Committee
229.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee considers that the dismissal of Mr. Guido Núñez Román, the trade union leader, having been motivated by his trade union activities, constituted an act of anti-trade union discrimination contrary to Convention No. 98.
The Committee consequently requests the Government to take steps with a view to the reinstatement of this trade union leader in his employment.
(b)
The Committee points out to the Government that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition that they pay the compensation prescribed by law for cases of unjustified dismissal, to get rid of any worker when the true reason for dismissal is his trade union membership or activity.
(c)
The Committee requests the Government to take steps with a view to punishing acts of anti-union discrimination and to making appeal procedures available to the victims of such acts.
Case No. 1310
COMPLAINT SUBMITTED BY THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF ORGANISATIONS OF THE TEACHING PROFESSION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA
230.
The World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession submitted a complaint of infringement of trade union rights in Costa Rica in communications dated 16 and 17 October 1984.
The Government replied on the matter in a letter dated 9 September 1985.
231.
Costa Rica has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Allegations made by the complainant
232.
The World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession alleges that the premises of a member organisation, the National Association of Teachers, were searched and that the members of the Association were prosecuted in breach of an agreement signed by the Government and the unions of teachers represented by the Teachers' Front.
233.
The Confederation explains that on 27 July 1984 an agreement was signed between the above-mentioned parties putting an end to the strike organised by the Teachers' Front.
This agreement made provision for negotiations on a list of claims in support of which the teachers had gone on strike.
The list related to salaries, the cost of school transport, the prices of certain goods and services (electricity, telephones, fuel, drinking water, transport) and the adjustment of increases in the salaries of public servants.
Section 8 of the agreement provided that the Government undertook to take no measure of reprisal against workers of the Ministry of National Education, or against teacher-leaders or students because of the activities of the Teachers' Front.
Lastly, in accordance with the agreement, the Government committed itself to negotiating with the Teachers' Front or alternatively to taking the measures provided for in the said agreement.
234.
However, according to the complainant Confederation, the premises of the National Association of Teachers in the town of Cartago were searched, documents were removed by the judicial authorities, and subsequently 800 teachers were taken to court for having - according to the National Association of Teachers - claimed improvements in social conditions and increases in salaries which the Government had been owing them for over two years.
B.
The Government's reply
235.
In respect of the searching of trade union premises and the court action taken against a number of unionised teachers, the Government replies that the executive authorities were not involved in these activities.
They were carried out by the Office of the State Prosecutor, coming under the judicial authorities and therefore totally independent of the executive authorities.
236.
The Government explains that in Costa Rica strikes in the public sector and in public education, which is considered to be a high priority public service, are illegal since they infringe article 78 of the Constitution which provides for the right to education, which is compulsory.
Furthermore, the Government states, book II, title XV of the Penal Code (section 333) provides that an official or public servant who abandons his post without having legally terminated his functions, to the detriment of his service, shall be liable to a fine of 20 to 70 days' pay.
Likewise, section 334, dealing with incitement to a collective abandonment of work in the public service, provides that any person inciting public servants or employees in the public service to abandon their work shall be liable to imprisonment of six months to two years and to a fine of 70 to 120 days' pay.
Lastly, article 61 of the Constitution recognises the right to strike except in the case of workers in the public service.
237.
The Government maintains that the provisions in question are designed to ensure the normal running of public services for the population since, in its view, a strike in these services would undermine the very existence of the State.
238.
With its reply the Government encloses the text of a letter sent to the Ministry of Labour by the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office, stating that the Office in question comes under the judicial authorities and acts in complete independence as regards penal action.
Consequently, the executive authorities played no part whatsoever in the proceedings taken against the teachers who took part in a strike that had been declared illegal.
The letter admits that a number of trade union premises were searched, with a legal warrant, at the request of a representative of the State Prosecutor's Office since the law was looking for written proof of the connection between the trade union and the offence covered by article 333 of the Penal Code.
The searches were carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Penal Procedure and the trade union representatives in question have so far not proved that any administrative irregularities or abuse of power by the authorities occurred.
The letter also refers to the statements made by the Government concerning the illegal nature of the strike in the public services, and points out that article 333 of the Penal Code, in respect of the collective abandonment of work by public servants or employees, causing prejudice to their service, is similar to article 330 of the Italian Penal Code.
239.
The Government adds that the examining magistrate of Puntarenas, who dealt with the initial stages of the case in November 1984, ruled that the case should be withdrawn and subsequently, and as an exceptional measure, adjourned the proceedings for one year.
Furthermore, the examining magistrate of Cartago, who was also seized of the affair, likewise ruled that the case be dismissed but the State Prosecutor's Office appealed against this ruling and won its appeal before the Higher Penal Court (second chamber).
However, the Government goes on, the judge of Cartago, who once again judged the substance of the case, acquitted the teachers on the grounds that the stoppage of their classes caused no prejudice to the teaching system and that, although the strike had been declared illegal by the Higher Civil Court, a large nummber of pupils had stayed away from school.
The Government includes copies of the above-mentioned court rulings in its reply.
240.
Regarding the conversations with the Teachers' Front, the Government agrees that these did not take place but explains that this was because of divergencies within the organisation itself.
It adds that it reached agreements in February and July 1985 with the National Association of Teachers and includes in its reply a copy of the said agreements relating to increases in the salaries of public servants and the setting up of a joint committee to determine the increase in the number of articles to be added to the "housewife's basket".
241.
Furthermore, the Government furnishes the text of a Decree dated 20 June 1985 to revise the said "housewife's basket", to which 14 articles have been added as compared with 1984 in compliance with the agreement of 19 February 1985 between the Government and representatives of the National Association of Teachers.
The Government also forwards the text of another agreement whereby the manual describing classes and teaching jobs, drawn up by the General Directorate of the Civil Service in agreement with the union, is to be submitted to the Chairman and General Secretary of the National Association of Teachers;  the manual is to be included in the draft budget for 1986 as soon as its financial implications have been studied.
242.
In conclusion, the Government considers that, contrary to what the complainants alleged, it has acted responsibly in this case vis-à-vis the teachers of Costa Rica.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
243.
The present case relates to reprisals said to have been taken against unionised teachers following a strike they had called to secure acceptance of claims of an essentially economic and occupational nature.
The trade unionists in question were prosecuted under Costa Rican law for having taken part in a strike and the premises of their trade union were searched to discover the link between the trade union and the strike.
The Government does not deny the facts, but explains that in accordance with Costa Rican law, teachers are public sector employees who do not enjoy the right to strike.
Consequently the strike was declared illegal by the judicial authorities and, on the orders of the said judicial authorities, the trade union premises were searched and the teachers prosecuted.
However, they were acquitted by the courts.
The Government further maintains that agreements were reached with the persons concerned to bring this labour dispute to an end.
244.
The Committee notes with interest that, according to the Government, the trade unionists who had been prosecuted were acquitted and that agreements were reached with the National Association of Teachers to bring the dispute to an end.
245.
Nevertheless the Committee is obliged to draw the Government's attention to the importance it has always attached to the right to strike as a legitimate means of defending the economic and social interests of workers and their organisations. [See, in particular, Fourth Report, Case No. 5 (India), para. 27.]
246.
Although the Committee has recognised the principle that there may be restrictions on the right to strike, or even that strikes may be prohibited in the public service or in essential services (whether public, semi-public or private), it has frequently stated that this principle would become meaningless if the legislation defined the public service or essential services too broadly.
Consequently the Committee, like the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, considers that any prohibition or restriction should be confined to public servants acting in their capacity as agents of the public authority or to essential services whose interruption would endanger the life, personal safety or health of the whole or part of the population.
[See 230th Report, Case No. 1173, (Canada/British Columbia), para. 577, and Case No. 1225 (Brazil), para. 668.]
The Committee considers that the teachers do not come under this category.
[See, for example, 221st Report, Case No. 1097 (Poland), para. 84;  226th Report, Case No. 1164 (Honduras), para. 343;  and 230th Report, Case No. 1173 (Canada/British Columbia), para. 577, already cited.]
247.
The Committee therefore invites the Government to re-examine its legislation and, in particular, the provisions of the Labour Code (article 369 (a)) and of the Penal Code (sections 333 and 334) so that the list of activities in which strikes are prohibited is confined to the public service and to essential services in the strict sense of the term.
The Committee's recommendations
248.
In the circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes with interest that in the present case the unionised teachers who had been prosecuted for having taken part in a strike were acquitted and that agreements were reached with the National Association of Teachers putting an end to this dispute.
(c)
The Committee invites the Government to re-examine its legislation so that the list of activities in which strikes are prohibited is confined to public servants acting in their capacity as agents of the public authority or to essential services whose interruption would endanger the life, personal safety or health of the whole or part of the population.
Case No. 1291
COMPLAINT SUBMITTED BY THE TRADE UNION CONFEDERATION OF COLOMBIAN WORKERS (CSTC) AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
249.
The Committee examined this case at its meeting in November 1984, when it submitted an interim report to the Governing Body.
[See 236th Report, paras. 686 to 697, approved by the Governing Body at its 228th Session (November 1984).]
250.
Since then the CSTC furnished further information in support of its complaint in a communication dated 23 April 1985.
The Government sent its observations on the outstanding allegations in communications of 29 May, 10 July and 13 August 1985.
251.
Colombia has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
252.
The outstanding allegation in this case concerns the dismissal of 13 unionised workers from the enterprise "Industrías Alimenticias Noël SA".
According to the complainant, this measure, which occurred when a list of grievances had been submitted to the employer, was designed to weaken the works union.
The measure is also said to be contrary to section 25 of Legislative Decree No. 2351 which states that employers may not dismiss workers when a list of grievances has been submitted.
253.
At its meeting in November 1984, the Committee, noting that the Government had not furnished a detailed reply to this allegation, requested the Government to send its observations on the matter.
B.
Subsequent developments
254.
In response to a request from the Committee, the complainant organisation supplied the names of 15 dismissed workers on 23 April 1985.
255.
In its communication of 29 May 1985, the Government states that the Labour Code permits the unilateral termination of the contract of employment, without the grounds being stated but with compensation being paid for the prejudice suffered.
The parties are free to follow this procedure at any time without the administrative labour authority having the possibility of demanding explanations as to the grounds for the termination.
Dismissed workers are entitled to appeal to the labour courts for the restitution of their rights, which is what happened in the present case.
256.
In its communications of 10 July and 13 August 1985, the Government provides information on progress in the court proceedings.
Thirteen workers lodged appeals with the social chambers of the Medellín courts.
Rulings were handed down in three cases, in two of which the employer was acquitted.
257.
The Government specifies that the contracts of employment were broken unilaterally by the employer on the basis of section 64 of the Labour Code, and of section 8 of Legislative Decree No. 2351 of 1965.
This provision enables the parties to terminate the contract without stating the grounds for so doing.
However it goes on to provide that the employer must pay the worker compensation corresponding to the pay he would have received during the rest of his contract or, if the contract was of unlimited duration, 45 days' pay plus supplementary benefits varying according to the worker's length of service.
It is further provided that where a worker who has completed ten years' continuous service has been dismissed without justification, the labour court may, at the worker's request, order his reinstatement under the same conditions of employment and with payment of his salary or of compensation for loss of earnings.
The Government maintains that Colombian labour law embodies the principle of autonomy of the parties in unilaterally terminating a contract of employment, requiring however that the party responsible for breaking the contract should make reparation.
The Government states that if an employer breaks a contract of employment because he considers that a worker has not fulfilled his contract - and proves this before a court - this should not be construed as infringing trade union rights.
258.
The Government also states that it is not the place of the administrative labour authority to intervene in cases before the courts.
Nor is the Ministry empowered by law to determine the grounds on which a contract of employment was terminated, this being a function entrusted by the Labour Code to the labour courts.
According to the Government, the rights of employers and of workers are safeguarded perfectly by the law since the latter gives both parties the possibility of unilaterally terminating a contract of employment where they consider that this has not been fulfilled and enables them to take appropriate legal action if they believe their rights have been infringed.
In the Government's opinion, the law may not forbid employers or workers to terminate a contract of employment unilaterally since this would mean infringing the personal freedoms embodied in the national Constitution.
The dismissals which occurred at the "Industrías Alimenticias Noël SA" enterprise are therefore normal lawful occurrences which, in accordance with the law, may be brought before the ordinary labour courts if they are considered to be illegal and/or unjust.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
259.
The Committee has taken note of the explanations furnished by the Government concerning the dismissals which took place in "Industrías Alimenticias Noël SA".
In particular it notes that, in accordance with the Colombian Labour Code, employers may unilaterally terminate a contract of employment, even without justification, by paying the workers concerned the compensation provided for by law.
260.
In this connection the Committee must point out to the Government that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination - as set out in Convention No. 98 - is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition they pay the compensation prescribed by law in all cases of unjustified dismissal, to get rid of any worker, when the true reason for dismissal is his trade union membership or activity.
[See, for example, 211th Report, Case No. 1053 (Dominican Republic), para. 163.]
261.
In the present case, the Committee must point out that the dismissals of members of the Noël SA works union took place at a time when the union had submitted a list of grievances to the employer on which the latter refused to negotiate.
The Committee is of the view that in such a case the authorities should recognise that a presumption of acts of anti-union discrimination is involved, should rapidly undertake the necessary inquiries and, where necessary, take measures to avoid the recurrence of acts of this kind.
The Committee therefore requests the Government to consider the adoption of texts providing effective protection against acts of anti-union discrimination, both in law and in practice, in accordance with Article 1 of Convention No. 98, ratified by Colombia.
The Committee draws the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to this case.
The Committee's recommendations
262.
In these circumstances, the Committee requests the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee points out to the Government that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition they pay the compensation prescribed by law for cases of unjustified dismissal, to get rid of any worker when the true reason for dismissal is his trade union membership or activity.
(b)
The Committee is of the view that, in cases such as that of the Noël SA enterprise, the authorities should recognise that a presumption of anti-union discrimination is involved, should rapidly undertake the necessary inquiries and should, if necessary, adopt measures to avoid a recurrence of dismissals of this kind.
(c)
The Committee requests the Government to consider the adoption of texts providing effective protection against acts of anti-union discrimination both in law and in practice.
The Committee draws the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to this case.
Case No. 1293
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE UNIFIED WORKERS' CONFEDERATION AND THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF WORKERS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
263.
The complaints are contained in communications from the Unified Workers' Confederation (CUT) and the General Confederation of Workers (CGT) dated respectively 5 July and 4 October 1984.
The CUT presented additional information in a communication dated 24 July 1984, and the CGT in communications dated 13 and 17 November 1984.
The Government replied in communications dated 2 November 1984 and 31 January and 23 May 1985.
264.
The Dominican Republic has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainants' allegations
265.
The CUT alleges that the following persons were dismissed in connection with trade union activities:  Marcelino Manuel Uribe (a trade unionist in the heavy equipment undertaking of the Dominican Cement Works, dismissed without reason on 1 June 1984), Elías Adames Boyer and Alfonso Sánchez (both trade union leaders, dismissed on 16 June 1984 from the Río Haina state sugar plantation as part of an operation carried out against the CUT).
266.
The CGT alleges in its first communication that the management of the "Porvenir" state sugar plantation pressured trade union leaders to leave the trade union or give up their jobs;
the management also stopped the check off deduction of trade union dues in violation of the current collective agreement in force.
In its later communication, the CGT states that the trade union in question has reached a satisfactory agreement on these matters with the management of the plantation.
267.
The CGT adds that the National Office of Land Transportation (ONATRATE) unfairly dismissed a number of its employees, starting on 8 October 1984.
This occurred during trade union elections, which ended on 19 October.
According to the CGT, four of the persons concerned featured on one of the two lists of candidates for nomination to the executive committee of the trade union.
B.
The Government's reply
268.
Referring to the dismissal of Marcelino Manuel Uribe, the Government forwarded a letter from the undertaking where he worked, stating that the reason for the dismissal was undisciplined behaviour in the undertaking, to the extent that "as regards the incidents occurring in April and the would be strike of May 1984, this person was one of the instigators of that strike ... the said person is not a member of any trade union organisation".
According to the Government, Mr. Uribe was dismissed under section 69 of the Labour Code.
269.
The Government also states that the management of the "Porvenir" sugar plantation and the CGT reached satisfactory agreements on the matters referred to in the complaints.
270.
The Government states in addition that Elías Adames Boyer and Alfonso Sánchez were not dismissed due to trade union activities.
The former was dismissed for failing to discharge satisfactorily the duties for which he had been engaged.
The latter was reinstated when it was determined that the reason for his dismissal was not sufficiently valid.
271.
As regards the dismissals in the ONATRATE, the Government states that some dismissals did in fact take place owing to the change in management, as a result of the administrative reorganisation of the office, but in no case did they relate to trade union activities, as is proved by the fact that most of the persons dismissed did not belong to the trade union operating in ONATRATE.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
272.
The Committee notes that the parties to the collective dispute which occurred in the "Porvenir" sugar plantation have reached an agreement which is satisfactory to both parties.
The Committee also notes that trade union leader Alfonso Sánchez has been reinstated in the Río Haina sugar plantation.
Lastly, the Committee takes note of the Government's explanations concerning the dismissals which took place in the ONATRATE.
273.
On the other hand, the Committee observes that, according to the Government, the trade union leader Elías Adames Boyer was dismissed for failing to discharge satisfactorily the duties for which he had been engaged.
In this respect, the Committee regrets that the Government has not provided more precise information on the specific reasons why the work of this trade union leader was considered unsatisfactory.
In addition, the Committee observes that, as regards the dismissal of Marcelino Manuel Uribe, the Government has forwarded a letter from the undertaking where this person worked, indicating that his dismissal was directly linked to "the incidents occurring in April and the would-be strike of May 1984", of which he was "one of the instigators".
The Committee also observes that Mr. Uribe was dismissed under section 69 of the Labour Code, that is, without a reason being given.
In these circumstances, the Committee regrets that Mr. Uribe was dismissed for carrying out trade union activities, thereby infringing Article 1 of Convention No. 98. It draws the attention of the Government to the principle that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination - as set out in Convention No. 98 - is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition that they pay the compensation prescribed by law in cases of unjustified dismissal, to get rid of any worker when the true reason for dismissal is his trade union membership or activities.
[See, for example, 211th Report, Case No. 1053 (Dominican Republic), para. 163.]
The Committee draws the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to this case.
The Committee's recommendations
274.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes that Marcelino Manuel Uribe was dismissed for carrying out trade union activities, thereby infringing Article 1 of Convention No. 98.
(b)
The Committee draws the attention of the Government to the principle that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition that they pay the compensation prescribed by law in cases of unjustified dismissal, to get rid of any worker when the true reason for the dismissal is his trade union membership or activities.
(c)
The Committee draws the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to this case.
Case No. 1306
COMPLAINT SUBMITTED BY THE INTERNATONAL CONFEDERATION OF ARAB TRADE UNIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF MAURITANIA
275.
The Committe has already examined this case at its meeting in February 1985 when it submitted an interim report which was approved by the Governing Body.
[See 238th Report, paras. 298-311, February-March 1985.]
Since then, the Government has sent the ILO 1985 a certain amount of information on the case in two telegrams, dated 28 April and 13 May.
At its May 1985 meeting, the Committee adjourned its examination of the case and requested the Government to supply additional details.
276.
Mauritania has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
277.
The International Confederation of Arab Trade Unions (ICATU) submitted allegations concerning the arrest of officials and trade union activists of one of its affiliates, the Union of Mauritanian Workers (UTM), including that of the organisation's General Secretary El Kory Ould Hmeity, and the death as a result of ill-treatment and torture of Sidi Mohamed Ben Aiat, who held the post of director of the commercial department of the Fuel Company.
278.
The Government replied that the trade unionists cited in the complaint were accused of undermining the security of the State by having acted in collusion with a foreign diplomatic mission but failed to specify the precise acts with which they were charged.
The Government did not reply to the allegation concerning the death of Sidi Mohamed Ben Aiat as a result of ill-treatment.
279.
In these circumstances, the Committee requested the Government at its February 1985 meeting to submit detailed information on the specific facts which led to the arrest of the UTM officials and to state if legal proceedings were being taken against them.
It also requested the Government to reply to the allegations concerning the death of a union official as a result of ill-treatment.
280.
In a later communication dated 20 February 1985, the General Secretary of the UTM, El Kory Ould Hmeity, thanked the ILO on behalf of the Mauritanian trade unionists for its defence of members of trade unions subjected to ill-treatment of every kind.
281.
In telegrams sent on 28 April and 13 May 1985, the Government stated that all the imprisoned trade unionists had been released under a political amnesty granted on 2 December 1984 and that Sidi Mohamed Ben Aiat had died from an illness.
282.
At its May 1985 meeting, the Committee decided to postpone its examination of the case as the Government's observations had reached it very late.
However, in view of the seriousness of the allegation concerning the death under torture of a trade union official, it urged the Government to supply additional details on the circumstances surrounding the death of Sidi Mohamed Ben Aiat and to indicate whether an independent inquiry into the matter had taken place.
In accordance with normal procedure, the Office transmitted the Committee's request to the Government.
283.
In a communication dated 13 June 1985 the Office informed the International Confederation of Arab Trade Unions that consideration of the case had been postponed and notified it that the Government claimed in a telegram sent on 13 May 1985 that Sidi Mohamed Ben Aiat had died from an illness.
The Office therefore asked the complainant for further details in this regard.
There has since been no reply from the complainant.
284.
On 22 August 1985 the Office sent a telegram to the Government of Mauritania requesting it again to comment on the case, but no reply has yet been received.
B.
The Committee's conclusions
285.
The Committee notes that the officials of the Union of Mauritanian Workers arrested in March 1984 were released in December 1984 after being held in custody for eight months without having been tried by an independent and impartial court.
286.
The Committee notes from the complainant's allegations that 17 trade union activists and officials suffered from anti-union repression and that one of them died under torture.
287.
The complainant has not indicated the grounds for the arrest of the trade unionists.
The Government, for its part, states that they were imprisoned on a charge of undermining the security of the State but has not specified the precise acts which they were said to have committed.
288.
The complainant has not commented on the Government's claim that Sidi Mohamed Ben Aiat died from an illness even though the Office has specifically invited it to do so.
289.
Regarding the large number of trade union activists and officials held in custody without any charges being brought against them, the Committee notes with interest that they have now been released.
It nevertheless condemns the imprisonment of union officials for eight months in violation of the fundamental right of trade unionists, like any other person, not to be held in custody unless convicted by an independent and impartial court.
290.
Regarding the alleged death of a trade union official under torture, the Committee can only note the Government's reply to the effect that the person concerned died from an illness and the complainant's silence on the matter even though it was invited to comment.
The Committee finds itself confronted by two contradictory statements neither of which is supported by evidence.
In view of the lack of detail regarding the complainant's allegations and of the clear statement made by the Government, and since the complainant organisation has not taken advantage of its right to submit further information in support of its complaint, the Committee considers that the complainant has not substantiated its allegations. This aspect of the case does not therefore require further examination.
The Committee's recommendations
291.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes that the trade union officials and activists who had been arrested have now been released.
It nevertheless condemns the holding of union officials in custody for eight months without their having been convicted by an independent and impartial court.
(b)
In view of the contradictory versions concerning the circumstances of the death of a trade union official submitted by the complainant and by the Government, the Committee considers that this aspect of the case does not, therefore, require further examination.
Case No. 1317
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION OF EMPLOYERS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
292.
The complaint is set forth in a communication from the International Organisation of Employers (IOE) dated 19 December 1984.
The IOE transmitted additional information in a communication dated 27 December 1984.
The Government replied by a communication dated 27 May 1985.
293.
Nicaragua has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainant's allegations
294.
The complainant states that the ILO convened in Mexico, from 3 to 7 December 1984, an important seminar to which representatives of employers' organisations in Latin America were invited in order to discuss in particular the role of employers' organisations in the creation of jobs.
Mr. Enrique Bolaños Geyer, the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Private Enterprise in Nicaragua (COSEP), announced that he would participate.
295.
According to the complainant, Mr. Bolaños, taking his passport which, as a precaution, he had photocopied and which two Managua notaries had reported intact, presented himself at the passport checking window of Managua airport on 17 November 1984, i.e. 16 days before the opening of the seminar.
He was forbidden to leave the country because a page was missing from his passport;
a page had in fact been torn out of the document.
296.
The complainant states that, at the request of the other participants who had announced that they would participate in the seminar, the Director-General of the ILO addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 20 November 1984, a telegram asking the Minister to intervene in order to facilitate the departure of Mr. Enrique Bolaños Geyer, the Chairman of the COSEP, from Nicaragua so as to enable him to participate in the seminar in question.
According to the complainant, this message remained unanswered.
Hence Mr. Bolaños Geyer was unable to obtain a new passport, in place of the one which had been mutilated, in time to attend the ILO meeting in Mexico.
297.
The complainant adds that on 3 December 1984 the International Organisation of Employers and approximately 40 participants in the seminar addressed a telegram to the Co-ordinator of the Sandinist Junta regretting with consternation that, despite the message from the Director-General of the ILO, Mr. Bolaños had been forbidden to leave the country in order to attend the seminar, protesting at the violation of freedom of association and of fundamental rights which this entails, and requesting as a matter of urgency that Mr. Bolaños be permitted to participate in the seminar.
This telegram too remained unanswered.
298.
In support of its allegations the IOE transmits a letter it received from Mr. Bolaños in which he stated that, on 17 November 1984, migration officials removed pages 11 and 12 and pages 21 and 22 from his passport and then proceeded to cancel the passport.
Attached to the letter is a photocopy of all the pages of Mr. Bolaños's passport, taken the day before he presented himself to the migration services and bearing, at the foot of the page, a note to the effect that on 16 November 1984 all pages of the passport were complete and properly bound.
299.
Furthermore the complainant adds a statement signed by 23 persons at variance with the Sandinist regime and calling themselves "captive dissidents", in which they report that the Sandinist Government has denied them the right to leave the country freely, and arbitrarily prevented them from doing so although there is no legal impediment to warrant such a course.
According to the statement, the improper and illegal procedures used to the detriment of the persons referred to include refusal to issue exist visas on the pretext of non-production of documents not required by law, loss of the passport, the existence of higher orders and inclusion in a special list, and invalidation of the passport either by removing or tearing a page from it or by making laterations in it.
300.
The statement in question mentions, in addition to the case of Mr. Bolaños and of certain employers' leaders and members of various political parties, the cases of the following persons in particular:
NICOLAS BOLAÑOS GEYER: President of UNCAFENIC, Director of Upanica and delegate to the COSEP.
He was refused a visa on the grounds that there was a backlog of work.
JUAN RAMON AVILES: Executive Secretary of the COSEP.
He was refused a visa at the migration offices on the grounds that his date of birth was wrong.
FRANCISCO CALDERA: Executive Secretary of Conapro.
He was denied the issue of a passport at the migration offices on the grounds that it had been sent to Special Zone No. 1 by unintentional error.
ORESTES ROMERO ROJAS: Executive Secretary of the Chamber of Commerce of Nicaragua.
His passport was delivered to him without an exit visa on the grounds that one could not be granted to him.
FRANK LEY: Director of the Chamber of Commerce.
His passport was not delivered to him;  he was made to go repeatedly to the migration office and was not given any reply.
CARLOS NOGUERA: Delegate of the Nicaraguan Development Institute (INDE) to the Nicaraguan Democratic Co-ordination Body.
His passport was held at the migration office on the grounds that there were restrictions on the issue of visas to certain persons.
301.
Lastly the IOE reminds the ILO that in 1982 it filed a complaint with the Committee on Freedom of Association alleging that the Government was obstructing the participation of leaders of the COSEP in international meetings (Case No. 1114) and that the Committee felt bound to recall that "representatives of workers and employers should enjoy appropriate facilities for carrying out their functions, including the right to leave the country when their activities on behalf of the persons they represent so require".
B.
The Government's reply
302.
The Government states in its communication of 27 May 1985 that, according to information from the Migration and Aliens Directorate, section 16 of the Migration Act, reading as follows, was in fact applied to Mr. Bolaños Geyer:
"No passport or identity and travel document which exhibits alterations or corrections and from which pages or covers are missing shall be valid ..."
In this connection the Government states that the only restrictions in existence in the country on travel abroad are those expressly laid down in the provisions of law.
Furthermore the Government states that it has not imposed gratuitous restrictions on any employer.
As evidence of the foregoing it may be reported that, according to the migration registers, the same Mr. Bolaños Geyer has made 14 trips abroad without any obstacle between January 1983 and February 1985 (the Government transmits official certification from the Migration and Aliens Directorate showing 18 departures from the country by Mr. Bolaños between 1981 and 1985).
303.
The Government adds that neither have any gratuitous restrictions been imposed on the self-styled "captive dissidents" referred to in the complaint from the complainant organisation.
As proof of its assertion, the Government transmits official certification recording the various departures from the country effected in recent years by Mr. Juan Ramón Avilés, Mr. Orestes Romero Rojas and eight more "captive dissidents".
C.
The Committee's conclusions
304.
The Committee observes that in the present case the complainant organisation has alleged the existence of arbitrary restrictions on the right to leave Nicaragua freely.
In particular the complainant has referred, firstly, to the case of Mr. Bolaños Geyer, the Chairman of the COSEP, who was unable to attend a seminar organised by the ILO owing to the removal of some pages from his passport and secondly to the case of 23 persons calling themselves "captive dissidents", among whom it refers especially to six leaders of employers' organisations.
305.
The Committee further observes that the complainant has not indicated the dates on which these six leaders of employers' organisations were prevented from leaving the country, nor whether such restrictions have obstructed or prevented the pursuit of activities by those persons in their capacity as leaders of employers' organisations.
306.
The Committee takes note of the Government's statement that it has imposed no gratuitous restrictions on any employer for travel abroad and that the only restrictions in existence in Nicaragua in that connection are those expressly laid down in the provisions of law.
307.
More specifically, with reference to Mr. Bolaños Geyer, the Chairman of the COSEP, the Committee notes that, according to the Government, section 16 of the Migration Act was applied to this employers' leader - who has left the country 18 times between 1981 and 1985 - and that this section provides that "No passport or identity and travel document which exhibits alterations or corrections and from which pages or covers are missing shall be valid ..."
In this connection, the Committee regrets that the Government has confined itself to mentioning section 16 of the Migration Act, omitting to comment on the complainant organisation's assertion that migration officials removed the sheet bearing pages 11 and 12 and that bearing pages 21 and 22 from the passport on 17 November 1984 and then cancelled it.
The Committee also observes that the Government has not referred either to the complainant's assertion that on 16 November 1984, the day before that on which Mr. Bolaños proposed to leave the country, two notaries were able to report that his passport was intact.
308.
The Committee strongly deplores the fact that, after the incident affecting Mr. Bolaños had occurred on 17 November 1984, the authorities did not act on the request made by the Director-General of the ILO on 20 November 1984 that Mr. Bolaños's departure from the country should be facilitated in order to enable him to participate in the seminar organised by the ILO which was to be held in Mexico from 3 to 7 December, that is to say a sufficient number of days after the date on which the incident in question occurred.
309.
Having regard to the foregoing considerations, the Committee concludes that the Government has not justified the illegal measures, involving the removal of pages from Mr. Bolaños' passport, which prevented him once again from leaving Nicaragua to attend the seminar organised by the ILO in Mexico.
In these circumstances, and having regard also to the fact that the Government has not referred specifically to other leaders of employers' organisations having been forbidden to leave the country or obstructed in doing so - although the complainant has not emphasised that these cases were connected with the pursuit of activities in their capacity as leaders of employers' organisations - the Committee is bound to draw the Government's attention as it has done in the past on several occasions, and particularly in 1983 regarding Mr. Bolaños, to the principle that representatives of workers and employers should enjoy appropriate facilities for carrying out their functions, including the right to leave the country when their activities on behalf of the persons they represent so require [see 222nd Report, Case No. 1114 (Nicaragua), para. 71], and that the free movement of these representatives should be ensured by the authorities.
310.
The Committee also requests the Government to take steps to ensure that the appropriate authorities do not hinder the participation by leaders of workers' or employers' organisations in activities designed to promote and defend the interests of their members.
The Committee's recommendations
311.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and in particular the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee concludes that the Government has not justified the illegal measures, involving the removal of pages from Mr. Bolaños' passport, which once again prevented Mr. Bolaños, the Chairman of the COSEP, from leaving Nicaragua to attend a seminar organised by the ILO in Mexico from 3 to 7 December 1984.
(b)
In addition, the Committee strongly deplores the fact that the Nicaraguan authorities did not act on the request made by the Director-General of the ILO on 20 November 1984 that Mr. Bolaños's departure from the country should be facilitated in order to enable him to participate in the seminar in question.
(c)
The Committee draws the Government's attention as it has done in the past on several occasions, particularly in 1983 regarding Mr. Bolaños, to the principle that representatives of workers and employers should enjoy appropriate facilities for carrying out their functions, including the right to leave the country when their activities on behalf of the persons they represent so require, and that the free movement of these representatives should be ensured by the authorities.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to take steps to ensure that the appropriate authorities do not hinder the participation by leaders of workers' or employers' organisations in activities designed to promote and defend the interests of their members.
Case No. 1318
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE GERMAN WORKERS' CONFEDERATION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY
312.
On 21 December 1984, the German Workers' Confederation (Deutscher Arbeitnehmerverband - DAV) lodged a complaint against the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.
On 6 February 1985, the complainant submitted additional information in support of its complaint.
The Government presented its observations on this complaint in communications dated 23 April and 3 May 1985.
313.
The Federal Republic of Germany has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Allegations of the complainant
314.
In its communication of 21 December 1984, the DAV complains of the withdrawal of its capacity to bargain collectively by decisions of several German courts, which resulted in its being deprived of the right to enjoy the special privileges recognised by legislation for trade unions in the labour courts and in the management of enterprises.
315.
The complainant, which has approximately 15,000 members, also states that it appeals against the decision of the European Commission on Human Rights of Strasbourg of 3 October 1983, which nonsuited its complaint of alleged violations of Articles 11 (on freedom of association) and 14 (on non-discrimination) of the European Convention on Human Rights.
316.
Reviewing the background of the lawsuit which brought it into conflict with the Federation of Workers in Mining and Energy (IG Bergbau-Energie) and the German Confederation of Trade Unions (Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund - DGB) and several German courts for over ten years, the complainant explains that in 1972 several trade unions affiliated to the DGB brought a lawsuit before the labour courts of Herne for the withdrawal of its capacity to conclude collective agreements, although this capacity had been granted it on 20 March 1962 as a miners' trade union (Bergarbeiterverband - BAV) by the same labour court in Herne.
The DAV, then called the BAV, lost this suit.
The decision was confirmed by the labour court of the Land of Hann in 1975 on the grounds that the criterion for a trade union organisation to be able to bargain collectively should be that the said organisation should be in a position to apply pressure within the limits of the legal order, i.e. that it should be in a position to make the other party accept collective bargaining.
The Federal Labour Court in 1978, then the Federal Constitutional Court in 1981, rejected the appeals lodged by the DAV to regain recognition of its capacity to conclude collective agreements.
Specifically, the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court stated that the decision of the Federal Labour Court was constitutional, since the DAV did not fulfil the minimum requirements for obtaining the capacity to conclude collective agreements, and it decided that, as the request only referred to recognition of the capacity to conclude collective agreements, it was not necessary to rule on the question whether "the right of an association to be recognised" guaranteed by article 9 of the Constitution authorised a uniform interpretation of the concept of "trade union" in the Collective Agreements Act and the Works Constitution Act.
The DAV considers that this argument of the court is surprising, for it disregards the fact that DAV had expressly requested a ruling on whether it "possessed the status of trade union" in all respects.
According to the complainant, this decision resulted in the loss of its status as a trade union under the terms of the Works Constitution Act of 1972.
317.
The complainant considers that the negative decision of the Federal Constitutional Court is unjust, since the DAV should possess the status of trade union in all respects.
It therefore appealed to the European Commission on Human Rights, which stated that its complaint was ill-founded.
However, according to the complainant, the withdrawal of recognition of its status as a trade union, under the terms of the Works Constitution Act, which resulted in the loss of all its trade union rights and the capacity to act, violates the principles of freedom of association.
318.
According to the complainant, the members of the DAV are defenceless and exposed to the arbitrary action of the works councils held by the DGB.
They are at a disadvantage as regards nomination, transfer, promotion, etc. and as the DAV is not a trade union under the terms of the Works Constitution Act, it is not in a position to protect its members before the labour courts against this kind of discrimination.
Neither is it in a position to represent them before the labour courts at the Länder level.
319.
The complainant supplied voluminous documentation in support of its complaint, including the following:  a pamphlet giving an account of its establishment in the mining sector in 1952; the 1962 court decision granting it the right to bargain collectively in the mining sector;  its rules stating that it covers workers in industry, commerce and handicrafts, as well as those employed in the services, both in the public and private sectors; opinions of German jurists supporting its request;  a letter prohibiting the DAV from posting notices inside the Volkswagen enterprise in Wolfsburg in 1980 on the grounds that it is not authorised to post notices in the said establishment as it is not recognised as a trade union (this letter informs the DAV representative who posted a notice that, if he continues to post notices and disturb the peace in the enterprise, he will be dismissed without notice);  a letter sent in 1976 by a certain Helmut Homan of the Federation of Workers in Mining and Energy (IG Bergbau-Energie), forwarding to the DAV five letters of resignation by workers from the complainant (these resignations are drawn up on printed forms) and another letter of resignation written by a certain Herbert Frase, dated 1983, in which he informed the DAV that it had come to his knowledge that, contrary to the latter's claim, the complainant was no longer a trade union by decision of the Federal Constitutional Court and that he was therefore resigning.
320.
The complainant concludes by appealing to the ILO for recognition as a trade union under the terms of the Works Constitution Act of 1972.
B.
The Government's reply
321.
The Government confirms in its reply that the Federal Labour Court, in March 1978, rejected the appeal lodged by the DAV to be granted the status of trade union and the capacity to bargain collectively on the grounds that, for a workers' association to enjoy the status of a trade union and the capacity to bargain collectively, it must carry sufficient weight to put pressure on, and resist pressure from, the opposing party so that negotiations may generally result in a collective agreement (criterion of the capacity of a trade union to obtain the acceptance of its claims).
The Government also confirms that the Federal Constitutional Court rejected the appeal of unconstitutionality lodged by the DAV against the decision of the Federal Labour Court in October 1981.
322.
According to the Government, the DAV is a workers' association whose purpose is to guarantee and improve the economic and working conditions of its constituents enshrined in section 9(3) of the Basic Law.
Therefore, the DAV is free to act as a workers' association and, as such, is free to submit complaints, elect its leadership, lodge appeals and recruit new members, in conformity with the requirements of Convention No. 87.
323.
Concerning the compaint that the members of the DAV are subjected to discrimination, the Government explains that section 75 of the Works Constitution Act obliges employers and works councils to ensure that every person employed in the enterprise is treated in conformity with the principles of law and equity and that there is no discrimination against any person, in particular on account of their political or trade union activities or convictions.
According to the Government, if a works council neglects its duties or infringes its principles it renders itself liable, under section 23(1) of the Works Constitution Act, to dissolution; likewise an individual member guilty of such acts is liable to removal.
324.
As regards the criteria for determining the representativity of a trade union in order to grant it the capacity to bargain collectively, the Government explains that such capacity is only conferred on associations which fulfil the following conditions:
they must be autonomous in the negotiation of wage rates and must consequently be in a position to regulate conditions of employment by means of collective agreements and to maintain industrial peace.
It is therefore necessary for the association concerned to be able to win acceptance for its claims from the opposing party by reason of the number of its members or by its position of strength in the enterprise.
It must also carry enough weight to put pressure on, and resist pressure from, the opposing party so that negotiations can generally lead to the conclusion of collective agreements.
325.
The Government recalls that the Committee on Freedom of Association and the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations have considered that legislation requiring that a trade union be representative or competent in order to be able to bargain collectively is not contrary to the principle of freedom of association if the determination of the trade union in question is based on objective and pre-established criteria.
According to the Government, German legislation fulfils these conditions.
It adds that the decision to grant an association the capacity to bargain collectively is a matter for the labour courts and the DAV must apply again to the courts for recognition of its capacity to bargain.
326.
The Government also states that, under the terms of the Labour Courts Act, independent associations of workers organised for social or occupational purposes may bring their disputes before the labour courts or be represented by lawyers.
It also includes with its reply extracts from the decision of the Federal Labour Court of 14 March 1978 and from the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court of 20 October 1981.
327.
At the same time, the DGB sent its observations on this case at the Government's request.
It considers that the right to set up organisations for the purpose of defending and promoting the economic and working conditions of every worker in every industry and in every occupation is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany.
According to the DGB, the DAV is a workers' association which enjoys the rights enshrined in Articles 2 and 3 of Convention No. 87;
that association states that it has existed for 30 years and has 14,000 members throughout the country.
No one prohibits it from carrying on its activities independently and from representing the interests of its constituents vis-à-vis their employers, affirms the DGB.
328.
Concerning the discrimination alleged to have been suffered by members of the DAV in enterprises where the works councils are held by other trade union organisations, the DGB considers that, even if this were true, it would not prove that the Federal Republic of Germany violated Convention No. 87.
The Convention prohibits the public authorities from interfering in matters of freedom of association but it contains no provision on the behaviour to be adopted between workers who are members of rival organisations.
The DGB regrets that the DAV merely stated in general terms that its members were defenceless and at the mercy of works councils held by the DGB, and affirms that this allegation is unfounded.
329.
The DGB further reiterates the information supplied by the Government concerning the Works Constitution Act, which obliges works councils to ensure that no "person employed in the establishment" is subjected to anti- union discrimination, and which also provides that any infringement in this respect would incur dissolution of the works council or removal of the individual member guilty of such acts.
330.
The DGB also reiterates the information supplied by the Government as to the difference between a trade union with the capacity to bargain collectively and a workers' association, and recalls that disputes on this matter are settled by the courts on the basis of objective pre-established criteria, i.e. the ability to put pressure on the opposing party and to resist such pressure from the opposing party by reason of the number of its members or its position of strength in labour relations.
However, continues the DGB, as was admitted by the DAV, this association numbers 14,000 members throughout all the industrial and economic sectors of the country, while the DGB comprises 17 trade unions in the same sectors, with 8 million members.
In other words, the representativity of the DAV is particularly weak.
331.
The DGB adds that the DAV has never signed any collective agreement, as was pointed out by the Federal Labour Court, but would like to be recognised as a trade union with the capacity to bargain collectively so as to give workers the impression that it is in a position to regulate their working conditions by obtaining the establishment of legal provisions within the German collective agreement system which would override the statutory provisions, and that it does so, which is not the case.
Nevertheless, according to the DGB, no one prevents the DAV from submitting complaints to the opposing party or concluding collective agreements, but a workers' association must be in a position to do so itself in full autonomy, and cannot demand that its capacity in this respect, which is not borne out by the facts, be confirmed by a court.
332.
The DGB concludes that Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 have not been infringed by the Federal Republic of Germany which, like other member States of the ILO, only grants the capacity to bargain collectively to representative or competent trade unions.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
333.
The Committee observes that, in the present case, the complainant has opposed a decision of the European Commission on Human Rights of Strasburg and stated that it was lodging an appeal with the ILO against the said decision.
The Committee, not being competent to examine the decisions of other international or regional bodies, considers that this aspect of the complaint is not receivable under the terms of the procedure in force.
334.
As regards the substance of the case, the Committee observes that it essentially involves a question of legal recognition of the status of a trade union with the capacity to conclude collective agreements and the negative consequences which the loss of such recognition entails.
335.
The Committee has always considered that it is not necessarily incompatible with Article 3 of Convention No. 87 (according to which workers' and employers' organisations have the right to organise their administration and activities and formulate their programmes without interference by the public authorities) to provide for the issuance of a certificate to the most representative trade union recognising it as an exclusive bargaining agent.
[See the Committee on Freedom of Association, 67th Report, Case No. 303 (Ghana), paras. 291 and 292.]
336.
Nevertheless, the Committee has pointed out on several occasions that where, according to the system in force, the most representative trade union enjoys preferential or exclusive bargaining rights, it is important that this trade union be determined on the basis of objective and pre-established criteria in order to rule out any possibility of partiality or abuse.
[See the Committee on Freedom of Association, 92nd Report, Case No. 376 (Belgium), para. 31;  109th Report, Case No. 533 (India), para. 101;  202nd Report, Case No. 949 (Malta), para. 278;  and 208th Report, Case No. 981 (Belgium), para. 113.]
337.
In the case under consideration, the Committee observes that the labour courts, including the highest court of the Federal Republic of Germany, ruled on the basis of objective and pre-established criteria.
The Committee has taken note, in particular, of the decision of the Federal Labour Court of 14 March 1978 stating that the number of members of the DAV and the structure of its organisation are insufficient for it to be recognised as a trade union.
The distribution of its members is very dispersed and it holds no key position in any sector.
In addition, its administration is inadequate to enable it to carry on negotiations in areas as important as mining and energy.
The Committee also observes that, as had been admitted by the DAV, this workers' association only has 14,000 or 15,000 members in all sectors of the economy throughout the country.
The DGB, on the other hand, numbers 8 million workers in all sectors throughout the country.
338.
In these circumstances, the Committee considers that the non-recognition of the complainant as a trade union with the capacity to conclude collective agreements, ruled by court decision, does not infringe the principles of freedom association, the more so because this federation could apply again to the court for recognition of its capacity to bargain if the situation changed.
339.
As regards the negative consequences entailed by the loss of this recognition and, in particular, the prohibition on posting notices, incitements to resign from the DAV on the grounds that this workers' association is no longer a trade union, and the allegations of discrimination against members of the DAV, the Committee points out the importance which it attaches to the fact that the public authorities should guarantee that non-recognition of a worker organisation's capacity to bargain does not result in that trade union forfeiting the other rights which the minority workers' association and its members should enjoy and the Government should protect the activities that even a minority workers' association should be able to carry on in order to further and defend the interests of its constituents in accordance with Convention No. 87.
The Committee's recommendations
340.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee considers that the withdrawal of the status of a trade union with a capacity to conclude collective agreements from the complainant by court decision on the basis of objective and pre-established criteria does not run counter to the principle of freedom of association.
The Committee therefore considers that, on this point, there has been no infringement of freedom of association.
(b)
However, the Committee draws the attention of the Government to the fact that the public authorities must ensure that the withdrawal in question does not result in this minority workers' association and its members forfeiting the other rights which they should be able to enjoy in accordance with Convention No. 87.
Case No. 1323
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, THE TRADE UNIONS OF THE PHILIPPINES AND ALLIED SERVICES AND THE KILUSANG MAYO UNO AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
341.
The International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) presented a complaint of violations of trade union rights against the Government of the Philippines on 7 March 1985.
The Trade Unions of the Philippines and Allied Services (TUPAS) also addressed a complaint against the Government in communications dated 13 and 29 May 1985, as did the Kilusang Mayo Uno (KMU) in a communication dated 8 June 1985.
The Government sent its observations in communications dated 30 May, 14 June and 26 August 1985.
342.
The Philippines have ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98);
they have not ratified the Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 (No. 151).
A.
The complainants' allegations
343.
In its communication of 7 March 1985, the ICFTU states that it is greatly concerned about restrictions relating to the right to strike, the requirements for the registration of trade unions, the powers of inquiry conferred on the Department of Labour in respect of the financial management of unions and the harassment, arrest and detention of trade unionists in the Philippines.
This has been reflected in the observations of the ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations and by the Committee on Freedom of Association in its conclusions concerning Cases Nos. 1157 and 1192.
In particular, the ICFTU alleges an additional infringement of trade union rights by the Government, namely the denial of the right to organise in the public sector.
According to the ICFTU, while section 244 of the Labour Code guarantees the right to "self-organisation" to workers in commercial, industrial and agricultural enterprises, the workers in government and local government services, as well as workers in government-owned or controlled corporations - covered by the Civil Service Law and Rules - are excluded from the right to organise in trade unions.
This, states the ICFTU, results in a situation where a substantial proportion of Filipino workers are without the protection and means for the furtherance of their interests by trade union organisations.
344.
In its communication of 13 May 1985, the TUPAS alleges that recent legislation on strikes and lock-outs - Letter of Instruction No. 1458 promulgated on 1 May 1985, a copy of which is supplied - weakens concerted actions, strikes and picketing by workers, and is in violation of ILO Conventions.
345.
In its communication of 29 May 1985, the TUPAS states that, although Letter of Instruction No. 1458 has not at present been implemented, it is contrary to the ILO Conventions on freedom of association for the following reasons:
(1) it states that any assumption of jurisdiction by the President or Minister of Labour shall be immediately executory even if such action is under appeal to the Supreme Court;
(2)
it empowers the Minister of Labour to authorise the employer to hire replacement labour;
(3)
the police and military may be used for the immediate execution of orders even if the Supreme Court should subsequently declare the action of the Minister void.
346.
In its communication of 8 June 1985, the KMU first alleges that the following labour leaders were arrested on 13 August 1982 and remain detained by the military authorities:  Romeo Castillo, Cesar Bristol, Danilo Garcia, Herminia Ibarra (all detained at Military Camp Bagong Diwa), Millet Soriano, José Britanico, Simplicio Anino, Lauro Pabit (all detained at Military Camp Crame), Ceferino Pineda, Antonio Cabrera, Renato Yineda, Roberto Ramos and Noel Maglalang (all detained at Military Camp Olivas).
According to the KMU, they were charged with offences which they have not committed.
347.
Secondly, the KMU alleges that the major labour laws are repressive and violate the ILO Constitution and freedom of association Conventions.
For example, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are restricted in the following circumstances:
(a)
government employees, including employees working in quasi-public corporations, are not allowed to organise as labour organisations and are prohibited from declaring a strike or engaging in other concerted activities.
Their security of tenure and other terms and conditions of employment are governed by the Philippine Civil Service Laws which are unilaterally imposed by the Government.
Prior to martial law in the Philippines, the rights of public employees to organise in quasi-public corporations had been recognised;
(b)
workers in the following industries are allowed to organise labour unions but are prohibited from declaring a strike or engaging in concerted activities pursuant to section 264(g) of the Labor Code, Legislative Resolution No. 473 and Executive Order No. 815:  export-oriented industries, semi-conductor business, public utilities, companies engaged in the generation or distribution of energy, banks and hopsitals;
(c)
the following are not allowed to unionise: private security guards, personnel employed by the employers for the protection and security of their person, properties and the factory, managerial employees, casual, probationary and temporary employees, apprentices, learners and contractual workers.
348.
The KMU alleges in this connection that freedom of association is curtailed by the Government by not according to a labour organisation the status of a legitimate labour organisation unless it registers with the Ministry of Labour and Employment.
For example, KMU is refused recognition by the Government because it is not a registered labour centre despite clear and unequivocal acceptance by the Filipino workers of its legitimacy.
Moreover, undue delays in the handling of union representation cases affects the rights of the workers to form an association.
For example, a simple election case can last for more than one year thereby frustrating the free choice of bargaining agents.
Related to this are the stringent requirements imposed by the Government for the registration of labour unions (section 234 of the Labour Code) and labour federations and national unions (section 237 of the Labour Code:
a labour federation or national union cannot be registered unless the applicant presents proof that ten local unions with collective bargaining agreements are affiliated to the federation).
349.
The KMU also refers to section 6 of Presidential Decree No. 1391 by which workers are prohibited from changing their bargaining agent during the life of a collective bargaining contract which is fixed at three years.
Consequently, even if the bargaining agent selected no longer enjoys the trust and confidence of the workers, the latter have to wait for three years before the bargaining representative could be changed.
350.
The KMU next refers to section 4(f) of Rule III of the Rules Implementing Presidential Decree No. 1391 which reads:
"... No person who is not an employee or worker of the company or establishment where an independently registered union, affiliate, local or chapter of a labour federation or national union operates shall henceforth be elected or appointed as an officer of such union, affiliate, local or chapter."
This rule, according to the KMU, prohibits a person not employed by the company from becoming a union officer.
351.
According to the KMU, freedom of association is also violated by the Government because it is empowered by law (sections 238, 239 and 240 of the Labour Code) to cancel the registration certificates of labour unions for the following reasons:  fraud in connection with the ratification of the union's constitution;  failure to submit the founding documents within 30 days from their adoption;  fraud during elections or failure to submit election information within 30 days of the election;  failure to submit annual returns within 30 days of the close of the financial year;  engaging in any activity prohibited by law;  entering into collective agreements setting conditions of employment below the minimum legal standards;  asking for or accepting special fees from employers or union members;  failure to submit membership lists at least once a year.
352.
Lastly, the KMU alleges that from January to May 1985 there has been an upsurge in trade union repression, involving the death of at least nine workers while actively representing their unions.
This complainant states that on 1 May 1985 the President issued Letter of Instruction No. 1458 which provides for the immediate involvement of the military in picket lines.
It claims that the use of fanatic groups, para-military and direct military intervention in strike situations is obvious.
353.
The KMU attaches to its communication a voluminous petition containing further details regarding alleged violations of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 and requesting the ILO to instruct the Government to stay the implementation of Labour Laws Nos. 130 and 227, Executive Order No. 815, Resolution No. 473 and Letter of Instruction No. 1458.
In addition to repeating the detailed allegations listed above, the petition refers specifically to undue employer and government interference in the internal activities of unions by requiring a majority of two-thirds votes before concerted action can be authorised and by permitting their representatives to attend and/or supervise union meetings.
354.
According to the KMU petition, rather than heed the criticisms of several international bodies, the Government issued Letter of Instruction No. 1458.
This legislation was used to put down a strike by 800 employees of the Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation at Santa Rosa, Laguna, with resulting injuries to 70 strikers.
While this legislation requires the employer to comply with a return-to-work order, the KMU alleges that some do not immediately reinstate striking employees, e.g. Baxter Travenol, Allied Banking Corporation, Blue Bar Coconut and the Producers Bank.
In addition, while the Letter of Instruction requires the payment of back wages to striking employees, the Minister of Labour does not order such repayment.
355.
The KMU also attaches to its complaint a copy of a petition it presented on 10 June 1985 to the Supreme Court of the Philippines requesting the issuance of a temporary restraining order against implementation of Letter of Instruction No. 1458 until the Court can decide that it is invalid and unconstitutional.
B.
The Government's reply
356.
In its communication of 30 May 1985, the Government explains that although both private sector and government employees are guaranteed the right to association, government employees performing governmental functions were in the past the only group not allowed to engage in concerted activities.
When the situation emerged where employees of government-owned or controlled corporations engaged in proprietary functions received wages and benefits far higher than their counterparts in the various branches of Government, it was decided to include such employees within the ambit of the Civil Service Act of 1959.
As a result of debates on this point during the adoption of the 1973 Constitution, section 1, Article XII-B, was passed, placing these employees under the Civil Service Act and providing that compensation of all government employees shall be standardised by the National Assembly.
The Government points out that section 277 of the Labour Code incorporated the constitutional provision in the following terms:
The terms and conditions of employment of all government employees, including employees of all government-owned or controlled corporations shall be governed by the Civil Service Law, rules and regulations.
Their salaries shall be standardised by the National Assembly as provided for in the new Constitution.
However, there shall be no reduction of existing wages, benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment being enjoyed by them at the time of the adoption of the Code.
357.
According to the Government, the phrase "government-owned or controlled corporations" has been interpreted by the Secretary (now Minister) of Justice and the National Labour Relations Commission (NLRC) of the Ministry of Labour and Employment as contemplating only those created by charter or by special laws or decrees.
It does not include corporations incorporated or organised under the Corporation Code of the Philippines and motivated wholly for profit and the promotion of private interests.
Hence, eventual government takeover through the acquisition of a controlling bloc of shares does not affect existing unions and collective bargaining agreements within the undertaking.
358.
The Government stresses that there is no law in the country that restricts the right to organise of government employees.
On the contrary, the right to organise is guaranteed by the Constitution.
Thus, in a case filed by the Alliance of Government Workers in 1983, the Supreme Court ruled:
... Our dismissal of this petition should not, by any means, be interpreted to imply that workers in government-owned and controlled corporations, or in state colleges and universities, may not enjoy freedom of association.
The workers whom the petitioner purports to represent have the right, which may not be abridged, to form associations or societies for purposes not contrary to law.
This is a right they share with all public officers and employees and, in fact, by everybody living in this country.
But they may not join associations which impose the obligation to engage in concerted activities in order to get salaries, fringe benefits, and other emoluments higher than or different from that provided by law and regulations.
That government employees can and do form associations of their own choosing to promote and protect their collective interests is evidenced by such organisations as the Philippine Government Employees' Association (PGEA), the Alliance of Government Workers (AGW), the Philippine Public School Teachers' Association (PPSTA), the Labor Arbiters' Association of the Philippines, Inc. (LAAPI), the Philippine Veterans Bank Employees' Union (PVBEU) and various co-operatives and trade organisations in the public sector.
359.
Referring to the alleged limitation on the exercise of the right to strike in government-owned and controlled corporations, the Government explains that prior to the promulgation of the 1973 Constitution, employees of such corporations performing proprietary functions could join a union that imposed the duty to strike and other similar concerted actions.
In practice, however, labour disputes involving government-owned or controlled corporations were considered imbued with national interest and were often recommended by the then Secretary of Labour to be certified by the President to the Court of Industrial Relations for compulsory arbitration under the legislation then in force.
The Government states that the constitutional provision is not absolute in that it refers only to those corporations with special charters.
Thus, corporations organised by the Government or those incorporated under the Corporation Act continue to enjoy the right to collective bargaining and concerted activities.
Among these corporations are the Philippine Airlines, Petrophil and Hyatt Regency Hotel, in which their employees are not only unionised, but also have existing collective agreements with them.
360.
According to the Government, the rights and interests of government workers are protected by Executive Order No. 895 of 1 May 1983.
This directive provides for the creation of an Employee-Management Committee in every government-owned or controlled corporation and  an Employee-Management Consultative Council in the Civil Service Commission.
The Government recognises that the formation of these bodies is crucial in view of the limitations on the right to bargain collectively regarding wages and strike actions.
Executive Order No. 895 aims at fostering closer and more harmonious employer-employee relations in government-owned or controlled corporations.
The Committee and the Council are intended to improve the existing framework for the expeditious settlement of grievances and in providing a forum for regular and meaningful dialogue between the parties.
" Grievances" as used in Executive Order No. 895, are defined as problems arising from physical working conditions, placement of employees, work distribution, performance appraisal, arbitrary actions, lay-offs and transfers, selection and promotion and other matters that may give rise to employee dissatisfaction.
The rules governing operation of the employee-management committees provide that these shall be composed of equal representation of managment and workers.
The Council, on the other hand, shall be composed of permanent representatives from the Employee-Management Committee which has referred a grievance to the Council and a representative from the ministry and agency to which the corporation involved is attached.
361.
The Government admits, however, that despite the administrative and judicial pronouncements regarding the right to self-organisation, some sectors continue to call for clarificatory legislation.
In view of this, Parliamentary Bill No. 4962 was filed on 25 February 1985 proposing several amendments to the Labour Code.
Among the proposed amendments is a provision which, while still prohibiting strikes in the public sector, recognises the right of this class of employees to bargain collectively with their employers and seeks to extend to them the same rights and privileges enjoyed by private sector employees.
A current review is also being undertaken by the Cabinet in line with the Supreme Court decision on the matter.
362.
To its communication dated 14 June 1985, the Government attaches a copy of the "Guide-lines to implement Letter of Instruction No. 1458" dated 31 May 1985.
The "Guide-lines" include safeguards such as exhaustion of conciliation or mediation before certifying the dispute to the National Labour Relations Commission for compulsory arbitration, the right to peaceful picketting and a restriction on the role of law enforcement authorities in labour disputes.
363.
In its letter of 26 August 1985, the Government first observes that many of the issues raised in the present complaint have already been examined by both the Committee on Freedom of Association and the Committee of Experts;
it accordingly refers to its past replies on these issues.
364.
The Government states that, on 20 August 1985, Millet Soriano, Simplicio Anino, Lauro Pabit and José Britanico were released from detention on bail.
They are being tried for conspiracy to commit rebellion or insurrection, illegal possession of explosives and violation of Presidential Decree No. 33.
The Government also states that, according to documentation at the Ministry of National Defence, the other militant labour leaders were arrested not for legitimate trade union activity but for subversive and illegal acts;
they are charged with illegal possession of firearms and ammunition and incitement to sedition, rebellion or insurrection.
365.
As regards the allegations concerning the labour legislation, the Government points to the following recent developments:
- the first meeting, on 20 February 1985, of the Tripartite Discussion Series on Labour and Employment Issues, during which the KMU, TUPAS and other workers' organisations were able to present their recommendations on the subject of arbitration to be included in the Ministry's Study Team review of labour laws, which is expected to hand down its final recommendations very soon;
- a public hearing, on 8 August 1985, on a draft bill (No. 4962) to amend the Labour Code incorporating some of the provisions referred to by the Committee of Experts;
- a National Tripartite Conference, to be held in September 1985, to discuss all possible amendments to labour legislation.
366.
More particularly, the Government explains that Letter of Instruction No. 1458 was prompted by the open defiance of both labour and management sectors of lawful orders issued by the Ministry of Labour.
Although issued in good faith by the Government, it is being included in the on-going review of labour relations laws in view of the varied reactions from both labour and management.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
367.
The Committee notes that four of the labour leaders listed by the KMU have been released from detention on bail pending trial on charges unrelated to their trade union functions or activities.
Given that the complainant did not attempt to link these arrests to the trade union activities of those concerned and merely referred to "an upsurge of trade union repression involving the death of at least nine workers" without supplying further details, the Committee considers that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
368.
Voluminous detail was provided by both sides on the alleged legislative violations of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98.
The ICFTU and KMU allege that public employees covered by the Civil Service Law and Rules are excluded from the right to organise in trade unions, cannot bargain collectively or strike.
The Government explains why civil servants and employees of government-owned or controlled corporations are subject to the same restrictions and points out that the latter (as well as teachers), by virtue of a Supreme Court ruling, may join associations which do not impose the obligation to strike.
They can also discuss working conditions and grievances through the Employee/Management Consultative Council.
The Government also points out that a distinction has been made whereby employees of those para-public corporations not set up by special charter continue to enjoy the right to bargain collectively and strike in the same manner as private sector workers.
369.
The Committee notes that the Committee of Experts, commenting on the question of the right to organise of public employees, has stated that, since they do have the right to form associations under the Civil Service Law, they are therefore not denied the rights guaranteed by Article 2 of Convention No. 87.
Problems, however, arise under Convention No. 98 in that freedom to bargain collectively is restricted for a very broadly defined group of public servants.
As has been pointed out to the Government in comments by the Committee of Experts under Convention No. 98 since 1981, Article 4 thereof concerning the encouragement and promotion of collective bargaining applies both to the private sector and to public undertakings and bodies, it being possible under Article 6 to exclude from such application only public servants engaged in the administration of the State, i.e. civil servants employed in various capacities in government ministries and other comparable bodies.
The Committee accordingly trusts that the current high-level revision of the labour laws will take this principle into account and requests the Government to keep the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations informed of developments as regards permitting public employees in both para-public corporations set up by charter and non-civil-service posts to negotiate their terms and conditions of employment.
370.
A related issue is raised by the KMU which refers to various Labour Code restrictions on private-sector unionisation (e.g., it is not available for private security guards, managerial employees, casual, probationary, temporary and contractual workers) and on the right to strike in the private sector (prohibited in export-oriented industries, semi-conductor business, public utilities, banks, hospitals).
The Committee recalls that the Committee of Experts, in its 1981 observation concerning the Philippines' application of Convention No. 87, noted the Government's explanation that security staff have para-military status and are required to undergo pre-employment training under the direct supervision of the Philippine Constabulary.
At the same time the Committee of Experts noted the restrictive definition of "managerial employee" and did not pursue the matter since such employees were free to form their own organisations for purposes other than for collective bargaining.
The Committee observes, as regards casual or probationary workers, that there is no specific provision in the Labour Code (1985 Consolidation) denying apprentices or learners the right to join a union.
Moreover, section 244 of the Code specifically recognises the right of "ambulant, intermittent and itinerant workers, self-employed people, rural workers and those without any definite employers" to form labour organisations.
The Committee accordingly considers that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
371.
The ban on the right to strike in some private sector activities has, however, been criticised by this Committee and the Committee of Experts in the past.
Although the 1985 observation by the Committee of Experts under Convention No. 87 noted that legal strikes had in practice taken place in banks, electric industries and export-processing zones, the Government's attention was again drawn to the principle that strikes can only be restricted or prohibited in respect of the civil service or essential services in the strict sense of the term, i.e. where the interruption of such activities would endanger the life, personal safety or health of the whole or part of the population.
The Committee again trusts that the current review of labour legislation will result in amendments being adopted in the light of the foregoing principle to limit the excessive restrictions on the right to strike.
372.
As regards the KMU's further criticisms of labour legislation (too detailed regulation of registration of labour unions and federations; three-year limit for changing a bargaining agent;  ban on holding union office on a person not belonging to the company involved;  wide range of reasons for the cancellation of registration certificates;  the two-third vote requirement for strike action), the Committee recalls once again that the ILO supervisory bodies have previously criticised these restrictions and has called for their amendment.
The Committee can only reiterate this request, and hopes that these points will be considered during the current review referred to above.
373.
Lastly, as regards Letter of Instruction No. 1458 of 1 May 1985, the Committee notes that, according to one complainant, it has not as yet been used and that the Ministry of Labour has issued "Guide-lines" emphasising voluntary settlement of labour disputes before referral to compulsory arbitration and restricting the role of law enforcement authorities.
Moreover, the "Guide-lines" provide for the specification of legal sanctions in the event of failure to comply with an arbitration order, such as non-payment of back wages.
The Committee attaches great importance to the "Guide-lines" of the Ministry of Labour and emphasises that any hasty decision to refer disputes to compulsory arbitration is not in conformity with these "Guide-lines".
It observes that the Government has responded to the varied reactions from labour and management to this Letter of Instruction by including it in the current review of labour relations laws.
The Committee requests the Government to keep the Committee of Experts informed of any developments concerning this legislation.
The Committee's recommendations
374.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
Given the lack of detail on and substantiation of the alleged arrest of several labour leaders for trade union activities, the Committee considers that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
(b)
As regards the legislative aspects of this case, the Committee recalls the conclusions of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to the effect that public servants do have the right to form associations under the Civil Service Law, but that the restriction on the right to bargain collectively placed on such public employees goes beyond the exclusion permitted by Article 6 of Convention No. 98.
(c)
In view of the conclusions reached by the Committee of Experts on the alleged restriction of freedom of association for private security guards, managerial employees and casual and probationary employees, the Committee is of the opinion that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
(d)
As regards the ban on the right to strike in certain private sector activities, the Committee once again draws the Government's attention to the principle that strikes can only be restricted or prohibited in respect of the civil service or essential services in the strict sense of the term.
(e)
As regards the remaining criticisms in the current labour legislation as well as Letter of Instruction No. 1458, the Committee notes that a high-level review of labour relations legislation is presently under way and that a draft bill is before Parliament incorporating some of the provisions referred to by ILO supervisory bodies.
The Committee trusts that this review will take into account all the comments of the supervisory bodies.
(f)
The Committee draws the legislative matters raised in subparagraphs (b), (d) and (e) of this case to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations and hopes that the Government will keep that Committee informed of developments concerning the labour laws as a whole.
Case No. 1324
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF ORGANISATIONS OF THE TEACHING PROFESSION, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND CLERICAL OFFICERS' ASSOCIATION, AGE, THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL OF TRADE UNIONS AND THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION (4TH DIVISION OFFICERS) AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA/NORTHERN TERRITORY
375.
The World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP) presented a complaint of violations of trade union rights against the Government of Australia/Northern Territory in communications dated 21 March and 7 May 1985.
The Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association, AGE (ACOA), the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and the Australian Public Service Association (4th Division Officers) (APSA) sent similar complaints in communications dated, respectively, 23 April and 7 June, 9 May and 11 June 1985.
The Government replied in a letter dated 26 August 1985.
376.
Australia has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98);
it has not ratified the Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 (No. 151).
A.
The complainants' allegations
377.
In its letters of 21 March and 7 May 1985, the WCOTP alleges that the Government of Australia/Northern Territory has undertaken reprisals - in the form of suppression of the check-off system - against lawful industrial action by its affiliate, the Northern Territory Teachers' Federation (NTTF).
The WCOTP explains the background to this action as follows:
on 15 August 1984 the NT Government unilaterally decided to alter housing arrangements for teachers and other public servants;
one meeting took place on 24 August with the Government but the Housing Minister and Treasurer announced that the NT Government would not move from its new position;
on 28 August the NTTF and eight other public employees unions staged a one-day strike to press for negotiations on the issue;
since no negotiations ensued the NTTF recommended to its members, on 27 September, a series of bans on extra-curricular activities, designed not to affect the provision of teaching services during school hours;
after one school excursion had to be cancelled, the NTTF was informed on 11 October 1984 that payroll deductions would cease unless industrial action stopped the next day;
on 12 October the NTTF was told that the cessation would take place with effect as from next pay day i.e. 19 October;
on 24 October the bans were lifted since a meeting to commence discussions with the Government had been arranged;
on 1 February 1985 the NTTF met the NT Minister of Education who refused to discuss the restoration of the check-off.
378.
According to the WCOTP, the rapidity with which government action was taken left no time to work out alternative methods of collection of membership dues.
It points out that the NTTF was paying an agreed amount for the service of payroll deductions (over A$9,000 per annum).
It considers that the cancellation of the check-off seriously impairs the conditions in which its affiliate carries on its work, particularly in view of the geographical circumstances of the Northern Territory where a sparse population is served in areas remote from the capital city, Darwin.
Since nearly all NTTF members paid their subscriptions in the form of payroll deductions, the immediate effect of the removal of this system was a drop in membership from 1,860 to 56.
The WCOTP explains that, through an alternative service agency, the NTTF has been able to regain membership dues for some 1,300 members but it fears that the NTTF will suffer financially from the withdrawal of payroll deductions and be impaired in its functioning and programmes.
Given the employer's continued refusal to negotiate this issue, there is a risk of deterioration in the relationship between the NTTF and the Government.
379.
In its communications of 23 April and 7 June 1985, the ACOA explains that its members were also affected by the NT Government's unilateral change in public servant housing arrangements and, along with many other unions, joined in the 24-hour strike of 28 August and later joined in the work bans, which affected overtime, ministerial correspondence etc.
The Government withdrew payroll deduction facilities for ACOA and APSA members on 20 September 1985 (after only two days' warning) but not from the other unions.
The work bans were lifted on 24 September 1984 but the Government has maintained its refusal to reinstate the check-off.
The ACOA states that this has placed severe financial pressure on itself and the other unions involved, particularly because they operate in some of the remotest areas of Australia where it is impossible to collect union subscriptions by any means other than payroll deductions.
The ACOA points out that it has 1,341 members in the NT, which reflects a fall of 80 since the withdrawal of the check-off.
380.
The ACTU, in its letter of 9 May 1985, supports the complaint of the NTTF because it considers the NT Government's action as a reprisal to lawful industrial action and as a hastily used weapon.
Given the serious adverse effect of the withdrawal of the check-off on the financial and organisational ability of the unions involved and the refusal of the employer to discuss its restoration, the ACTU believes that this action is an attempt by the Government to weaken a legally registered workers' organisation.
381.
The APSA, in its communication of 11 June 1985, also supports the NTTF's complaint.
B.
The Government's reply
382.
In its letter of 26 August 1985, the Government explains that the NT Government's decision to withdraw payroll deduction of union dues on 19 October 1984 took place against a background of continuing industrial action by NTTF, ACOA and APSA members in protest over the Government's budgetary decision to alter the housing and accommodation policy and practice as from 1 August 1984.
According to the Government, despite a number of meetings in September with the Treasurer and the Public Service Commissioner after which the NT Government announced a change in its original decision in order to protect public servants on low incomes, the industrial action continued.
Payroll deductions were discontinued on 20 September and the ACOA and APSA lifted their bans on 24 September.
On the other hand, NTTF members continued their bans on all non-teaching activities, upon which the Education Department decided to cease its payroll deduction facilities as of 12 October (effective 19 October);
teachers' industrial action only ceased on 24 October.
383.
The Government stresses that the check-off was discontinued only after a period of warning, and did not apply to all NT workers' organisations originally involved in the dispute (i.e. only to the NTTF, ACOA and APSA).
It also points out that in August 1979, in another matter, the ACOA had sought an injunction in the High Court of Australia restraining the cessation of payroll deductions on the grounds of breach of contract;
the Court had dismissed the claim as evidence from the documents indicated that the facility resulted from the making of an administrative agreement.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
384.
The Committee notes that the issue in this case concerns the withdrawal of check-off facilities in response to continuing industrial action by public employees' unions.
It recalls that it has examined analogous allegations against the Government of Australia in the past. [See 204th Report, Case No. 902, paras. 135 to 147.]
In that case, the Committee stated that the withdrawal of the check-off facility, which could lead to financial difficulties for trade union organisations, was not conducive to the development of harmonious industrial relations and should therefore be avoided.
The Committee considers that the same principle applies to the present case.
385.
The Committee also notes the on-going refusal of the NT Government to discuss the possible restoration of the check-off facility with the unions concerned.
It expresses the wish that efforts will be made by the parties, on the basis of an agreement, to restore the check-off facility previously available to the unions.
The Committee's recommendations
386.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee draws the Government's attention to the principle - as it has done in an analogous case in the past - that the withdrawal of the check-off facility, which could lead to financial difficulties for the unions involved, is not conducive to the development of harmonious industrial relations.
(b)
The Committee expresses the wish that efforts will be made by the parties, on the basis of an agreement, to restore the check-off facility previously available to the unions.
CASES IN WHICH THE COMMITTEE REQUESTS TO BE KEPT INFORMED OF DEVELOPMENTS
Case No. 1189
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC SERVICES INTERNATIONAL AND THE ORGANISATION OF AFRICAN TRADE UNION UNITY AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
387.
The Committee last examined this case at its February 1985 meeting when it presented an interim report to the Governing Body [238th Report, paras. 248 to 260].
Further information was received from the Government in a communication dated 6 September 1985.
388.
Kenya has not ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) or the Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 (No. 151);
it has ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
389.
When it presented its interim report to the Governing Body in February 1985 the Committee made the following recommendations:
(a)
The Committee draws the attention of the Government to the principle that public servants, like all other workers without distinction whatsoever, have the right to form and join organisations of their own choosing, without previous authorisation, for the promotion and defence of their occupational interests.
(b)
The Committee considers that a welfare association, such as that envisaged by the Government, would not fully afford to the civil servants concerned an adequate means to protect and defend their occupational interests.
(c)
The Committee requests the Government to supply full and detailed information on the measures that have been taken, or are envisaged, to permit the establishment of an organisation through which the workers concerned may pursue their normal trade union activities.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to transmit information on the question of the assets that were seized on the deregistration of the civil servants' organisation, and on the Government's intention as to the manner in which it is proposed to distribute these assets.
B.
Further reply by the Government
390.
In a communication dated 6 September 1985, the Government states that the Kenya Civil Servants' Welfare Association has been registered under the Societies Act.
It adds that, although the Association has not been allowed to participate in activities of a trade union nature, the gesture entailed in the registration is a good beginning and should be given a chance to operate.
Attached to the reply of the Government was an extract from the constitution of the Association containing, inter alia, the objects and membership clauses thereof.
C.
The conclusions of the Committee
391.
The Committee deeply deplores that the Government has not taken into account the recommendations adopted by the Governing Body at its 229th Session in February 1985, and that its most recent communication does little more than confirm that the situation in respect of which recommendations were made continues to exist.
392.
The Committee regrets, in particular, the failure of the Government to supply any information on measures which have been taken or which may be envisaged to permit the establishment of organisations through which the workers in question may pursue their normal trade union activities and it regards as especially regrettable the Government's affirmation that the Kenya Civil Servants' Welfare Association has not been allowed to participate in activities of a trade union nature.
393.
In the circumstances, the Committee draws the attention of the Government once again to the importance of the principle that public servants, like all other workers, without distinction, have the right to form and join organisations of their own choosing, without previous authorisation, for the promotion and defence of their occupational interests.
It urges the Government to take the steps necessary to give effect to this principle and thus to restore to the civil servants concerned the rights which they enjoyed prior to the Government's action of 17 February 1983 deregistering the Kenya Civil Servants' Association.
394.
The Committee also notes with regret that the Government has failed to respond to the request for information concerning the assets which were seized when the Kenya Civil Servants' Association was deregistered.
In this regard, it draws the attention of the Government to the principle that when a trade union is dissolved, its assets should eventually be distributed among its former members or handed over to the organisation which succeeds it;  by this is meant the organisation or organisations which pursue the aims for which the dissolved union was established and which pursue them in the same spirit.
The Committee expresses disquiet at the absence of any indications that the Government intends to put this principle into effect and calls upon it to do so.
The Committee's recommendations
395.
The Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee deeply deplores that the Government has not taken into account the recommendations adopted by the Governing Body at its 229th Session in February 1985. Its most recent communication confirms the situation which gave rise to the complaints.
(b)
The Committee regrets the failure of the Government to supply any information on measures which have been taken or which may be envisaged to permit the establishment of organisations through which the civil servants in question may pursue their normal trade union activities, especially since the Kenya Civil Servants' Welfare Association has not been allowed to participate in activities of a trade union nature.
(c)
The Committee draws the attention of the Government once again to the importance of the principle that public servants, like all other workers, without distinction, have the right to form and join organisations of their own choosing, without previous authorisation, for the promotion and defence of their occupational interests.
(d)
The Committee further notes with regret that the Government has failed to respond to the request of the Governing Body for information concerning the assets which were seized when it was deregistered.
(e)
The Committee draws the attention of the Government to the principle that when a trade union is dissolved, its assets should be distributed among its former members or handed over to the organisation or organisations which succeed it:  by this is meant those organisations which pursue the aims for which the dissolved union was established and which pursue them in the same spirit.
(f)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of any action it takes in respect of the above recommendations.
Cases No. 1277 and 1288
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY SEVERAL REGIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS, NAMELY:  THE INTER-AMERICAN REGIONAL ORGANISATION OF WORKERS, THE LATIN AMERICAN CONFEDERATION OF WORKERS, THE PERMANENT CONGRESS OF TRADE UNION UNITY OF LATIN AMERICAN WORKERS, THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS, THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF LABOUR AND BY SEVERAL DOMINICAN TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS, NAMELY: THE GENERAL WORKERS' FEDERATION, THE NATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF DOMINICAN WORKERS, THE GENERAL UNION OF DOMINICAN WORKERS, THE UNIFIED WORKERS CENTRAL AND THE WORKERS' TRADE UNION AUTONOMOUS FEDERATION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
396.
The Committee examined these cases at its November 1984 Session and submitted an interim report to the Governing Body [see 236th Report of the Committee, paras. 651-685, approved by the Governing Body at its 228th Session (November 1984)].
Later, the Government transmitted certain observations by a communication dated 28 May 1985.
397.
The Dominican Republic has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the cases
398.
These cases concern essentially the serious incidents which occurred during days of protest in April and May 1984 which had been organised by the five Dominican trade union central organisations grouped together under the Trade Union Council against the very large increase in the cost of living following the agreement signed between the Dominican Government and the International Monetary Fund at the end of April 1984.
399.
The numbers of dead and injured reported by the complainant organisations differed.
According to ORIT and ICFTU, 65 workers had died and 600 had been injured. According to WCL, there had been 37 dead and 157 injured. According to WFTU, more than 100 deaths had been recorded.
400.
The Government had stated in particular that on 23, 24 and 25 April 1984 violent public demonstrations had occurred both in the capital and the interior of the country;
these had included, in particular, the sacking and burning of public and private property and flagrant acts of aggression against the authorities responsible for keeping the peace.
Acting within the limits of the law, the authorities had resisted these attacks which unfortunately resulted in the death and injury of several persons.
The Government stated that the action of the armed forces and the police had not been directed against any particular sector, whether trade unions, students or other citizens.
401.
When the Committee examined the cases at its November 1984 Session the allegations relating to the deaths and injuries suffered during the aforementioned days of protest were left pending.
The Committee formulated in particular the following recommendations:
The Committee expresses its deep concern at the scope and seriousness of the allegations made in these cases and which concern the death and injury of several persons during trade union protest demonstrations against major increases in the cost of living.
As regards the violent deaths and injury of a number of persons, the Committee recalls the importance of carrying out a thorough inquiry to determine responsibilities so as to prevent a repetition of such actions;
it requests the Government to inform it of the outcome of such an inquiry.
B.
The Government's reply
402.
In its communication dated 28 May 1985 the Government states that the complainant trade union central organisations claim to have sponsored the protest movements staged on 23, 24 and 25 April 1984;  this is not in accordance with the truth, for the whole country is aware that those movements were not organised by those trade union organisations and that, on the contrary, they showed that they had been taken by surprise in not knowing the origin or leadership of the movements or the forces behind them;  consequently, this aspect of the matter is outside the trade union framework.
403.
The Government adds that the protest movements in question were in reality a rebellion against the legally established order which the forces of law and order, exercising their statutory powers, proceeded to repel.
As a result of those circumstances, it is impossible to establish guilt, chiefly that of the unknown instigators and ringleaders who took advantage of the discontent prevailing among the masses of the people at that moment, in an endeavour to capitalise on it in favour of their own political interests.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
404.
The Committee takes note of the information provided by the Government concerning the dead and injured during the protest movements of 23, 24 and 25 April 1984.
The Committee notes, in particular, that according to the Government, it is impossible to establish guilt, in particular that of the unknown instigators and ringleaders who took advantage of the discontent prevailing among the masses of the people at that moment, in an endeavour to capitalise on it in favour of their own political interests.
405.
In this connection, the Committee, notwithstanding that there may be difficulty in fixing responsibility for the deaths and physical attacks which occurred during the protest movements, wishes to point out that the Government has stated that several deaths and injuries occurred when the authorities responsible for keeping the peace, acting within the limits of the law, resisted flagrant acts of aggression and other criminal acts such as the sacking and burning of property.
In these circumstances, the Committee considers that it would be possible to carry out a thorough and impartial inquiry into the nature of the demonstrations and the deaths and physical attacks which occurred, in order to determine responsibilities.
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of the results of any such inquiry.
The Committee's recommendations
406.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee observes the contradiction between the complainants' and the Government's statements as to the trade union status of the organisers of the protests which took place in April 1984.
It points out, however, that the national complainant organisations have stated that they themselves had organised these protests.
(b)
The Committee emphasises the importance it attaches to the Government carrying out a thorough and impartial inquiry into the nature of the demonstrations and the deaths and physical attacks which occurred during the protest movements in order to determine responsibilites.
(c)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of the results of any such inquiry.
Case No. 1282
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE LOCAL FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS OF CASABLANCA (MOROCCAN FEDERATION OF LABOUR) AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
407.
The Local Federation of Trade Unions of Casablanca, affiliated to the Moroccan Federation of Labour, submitted a complaint of violations of freedom of association in Morocco in a communication dated 3 April 1984.
It sent additional information in support of its complaint in a communication of 9 May 1984.
The Government transmitted its observations on the case in a letter of 13 May 1985, which reached the ILO when the Committee was in session.
408.
Morocco has not ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87);
it has ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainant's allegations
409.
The allegations of the complainant refer to the dismissal of 20 workers, four of whom were trade union and staff delegates whom the complainant mentions by name, following two strikes in support of workers' claims in January and February 1984, lasting 48 hours and 24 hours respectively, and to the hiring of workers to replace the strikers at the Société marocaine des compteurs Vincent at Mohammedia.
410.
According to the complainants, following the presentation of a statement of claims by the workers, the management wished to compel them to work overtime on Saturday and Sunday.
When the workers refused because they wished their demands to be met first, the management decreed a reduction in working time and an increase in the pace of production for certain departments.
According to the complainant, these contradictory measures showed that the management was willing to resort to all kinds of pressure and diversionary manoeuvres to impede the workers' legitimate action in support of their claims.
411.
The trade union leaders then approached the authorities, and meetings were held with the delegate from the Ministry of Labour on 30 January 1984, with the first deputy governor of the town of Mohammedia on 6 February 1984, and with the governor himself on 23 February and 23 April 1984.
These approaches were unsuccessful, since the authorities were unable to induce the directors of the Société marocaine des compteurs Vincent to accept the need to reverse their decision on the dismissals and to open negotiations on the workers' demands.
412.
The complainant organisation pointed out that the dismissal of trade union delegates was prohibited by Moroccan law and took exception to the recruitment of new workers while the strike was in progress.
B.
The Government's reply
413.
According to the Government the dispute between Compteurs Vincent and the Local Federation of Trade Unions of Casablanca, affiliated to the Moroccan Federation of Labour, has been settled thanks to the efforts of the Casablanca Labour Inspectorate.
414.
Eight of the dismissed workers, including two trade union delegates, have been reinstated in their employment.
The remaining workers refused compensation for their dismissal from the undertaking and lodged an appeal with the court on 27 November 1984;
however, the management of the undertaking stated that the dispute in question arose from demands by the staff which it was unable to satisfy owing to financial difficulties.
The Government states that it will communicate any decision taken by the court on this case.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
415.
The Committee notes that allegations have once again been made concerning reprisals by an employer against workers involved in a labour dispute.
The Committee recalls that it has already had to examine a number of cases of this kind concerning Morocco, and even recently in the Compteurs Vincent undertaking.
[See 230th Report, Case No. 1116 (Morocco), paras. 72 and 78 approved by the Governing Body in November 1983.]
416.
While noting that the Government has supplied certain information on the measures taken to reinstate the eight workers as a result of the intervention of the labour inspectorate, the Committee observes that, as stated by the Government itself, the other workers dismissed in this case (12 according to the complainants) lodged appeals with the court on 27 November 1984.
417.
The Committee recalls that it is often called upon to examine allegations against the Government of Morocco concerning dismissals on anti-union grounds and the hiring of workers to replace strikers.
[See in particular 208th Report, Case No. 1017, paras. 392 to 403;  214th Report, Cases Nos. 992 and 1018, paras. 80 to 92;  230th Report, Case No. 1116, paras. 65 to 84; and 239th Report, Case No. 1201, paras. 110 to 123.]
418.
The Committee must therefore once again draw the attention of the Government to the need for strengthening protection against acts of anti-union discrimination and must again stress that the current provisions of Moroccan legislation are inadequate.
It therefore insists on the need to adopt more specific legal provisions than those that already exist in order to guarantee workers adequate protection, possibly accompanied by penalties against employers in the event of discrimination in respect of employment.
419.
The Committee also wishes to point out that the hiring of workers to break a strike in a sector like that of Compteurs Vincent, which cannot be regarded as an essential sector in the strict sense of the term and hence one in which strikes might be forbidden, constitutes a serious violation of freedom of association.
420.
In these circumstances the Committee trusts that the Government will keep it informed of the outcome of the appeals lodged by the persons concerned.
The Committee's recommendations
421.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present report, and in particular the following conclusions:
(a)
the Committee notes with concern that it is often called upon to examine allegations against the Government of Morocco concerning dismissals on anti-trade union grounds and the hiring of workers to replace the strikers;
(b)
the Committee once again draws the Government's attention to the need to strengthen protection against anti-union discrimination, and requests it to keep the Committee informed of the outcome of the appeals lodged with the courts by the dismissed workers.
CASES IN WHICH THE COMMITTEE HAS REACHED INTERIM CONCLUSIONS
Case No. 1054
COMPLAINTS BY THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF LABOUR, THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS, THE DEMOCRATIC CONFEDERATION OF LABOUR AND OTHER TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
422.
The Committee has examined this case on several occasions, the most recent being at its February 1985 meeting, when it presented an interim report to the Governing Body [see 238th Report, paras. 205 to 216, approved by the Governing Body at its 229th Session in February-March 1985].
The Government subsequently furnished some observations in a communication dated 30 May 1985, received by the ILO while the Committee was in session.
423.
Morocco has not ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87);  it has ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
424.
The complaints still outstanding in this matter relate to the death or injury of several hundred persons during demonstrations in connection with the 24-hour general strike called by the Democratic Confederation of Labour (CDT) on 20 June 1981 and with the closure of the CDT premises.
425.
At its session in February-March 1985 the Governing Body approved the following conclusions drawn up by the Committee:
The Committee observes with regret that the Government has not indicated whether a judicial inquiry was made into the many deaths that occurred during the June 1981 demonstrations.
It considers that events of such gravity should have led the authorities to take effective measures to elucidate the facts and determine responsibilities.
It again requests the Government to indicate whether an inquiry has been carried out and, if so, to communicate the results thereof.
The Committee recalls the importance it attaches to the protection of trade union property.
It expresses the hope that the two trade unions affected by the closure of their headquarters have now fully recovered the use of their premises, and requests the Government to supply information in this regard.
B.
The Government's reply
426.
In its communication of 30 May 1985, concerning the judicial inquiry into the events of 20 June 1981, the Government states that it has published a communiqué setting out detailed information to the effect that the special courts carried out their duty in accordance with the laws in force in Morocco.
427.
According to the Government the rights and safeguards of the defence were respected and sentences were passed according to the criminal nature of the acts committed by the persons charged.
The persons implicated in the demonstrations were found guilty and punished.
Those whose involvement was not proved were released.
428.
Regarding the allegation in connection with the closure of the premises of the Democratic Confederation of Labour, the Government states that it has never ordered the closure of any CDT premises.
429.
Furthermore the Government states that it has in general used dialogue and consultation constructively in its relations with the various occupational organisations and that it has initiated high-level contacts with trade union representatives to examine various economic and social questions with them.
It also recalls that the CDT is now represented in Parliament and is consequently in a position to raise occupational and trade union issues before the Government, which it can question orally.
430.
In conclusion, the Government hopes that it can rely on the perception or sense of fairness of the Committee on Freedom of Association to reinforce its efforts to settle Case No. 1054 once and for all.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
431.
The Committee expresses regret that the Government has not supplied it with the communiqué referred to in its reply of 30 May 1985 which it states contains detailed information concerning the deaths and injuries that occurred during the demonstrations of 20 June 1981.
The Committee requests the Government to communicate this document to it.
432.
The Committee had already noted the fact that all the trade union leaders who were involved in this matter were released in November 1983, following a royal pardon, after more than two years' imprisonment [see 233rd Report, para. 237].
The Committee also noted that the Democratic Confederation of Labour is once more taking part in the political and trade union life of the country and that a number of its representatives have seats in Parliament.
433.
The Committee also observes that, according to the Government's reply of 30 May 1985, it had never ordered the closure of any CDT premises.
434.
As regards the case as a whole, relating to events that took place in June 1981 and in view of the fact that two years ago the King pardoned the trade union leaders who had been involved in the matter, the Committee notes that the measures taken seem to fit in with the present pattern of a return to a fully normal situation in the trade union movement since the CDT is now represented in Parliament and is consequently in a position to raise occupational matters before the Government, which it can question orally.
435.
In these circumstances the Committee trusts that the situation which arose in connection with Case No. 1054, and which involved death and injuries during a strike in pursuit of economic and social demands, will not recur.
436.
The Committee wishes to remind the Government that, in ratifying Convention No. 98 - and in particular Article 4 thereof - it committed itself to taking appropriate measures to encourage and promote the full development and utilisation of machinery for voluntary negotiation with a view to regulating conditions of employment.
437.
The Committee also reminds the Government of the very great importance it attaches to the possibility of having recourse to strike action as a legitimate means of defending the workers' economic and social interests.
438.
The Committee therefore appeals to the Government to engage in a dialogue with all the trade union forces in the country, and in particular with the CDT, so that the Government may henceforth ensure that economic and social problems are resolved through industrial relations machinery which is considered reliable by those concerned.
The Committee's recommendations
439.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
It regrets that the Government has not supplied it with the communiqué referred to in its reply of 30 May 1985 containing detailed information concerning the deaths and injuries that occurred during the demonstration of 20 June 1981.
The Committee requests the Government to communicate this document to it.
(b)
The Committee reminds the Government of the very great importance it attaches to the possibility of having recourse to strike action as a legitimate means of defending the workers' economic and social interests and that henceforth economic and social problems may be resolved through industrial relations machinery which is considered reliable by those concerned.
(c)
The Committee appeals to the Government to engage in a dialogue with all the trade union forces in the country, and in particular with the CDT, in order to ensure that a situation which resulted in death and injury during a strike called for essentially economic and social reasons in June 1981, will not recur.
Cases Nos. 1129, 1169, 1185 and 1298
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY A NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL AND NATIONAL TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
440.
The Committee examined Case No. 1129 on two occasions, at its November l982 and February 1984 meetings, when it presented interim reports to the Governing Body.
[See 218th Report, paras. 467-481, and 233rd Report, paras. 236-242 and 317, approved by the Governing Body at its 221st and 225th Sessions in November 1982 and February-March 1984 respectively.]
The World Confederation of Labour sent additional information in support of its complaint on 13 April 1984.
441.
Case No. 1169 has been examined by the Committee on four occasions: in March 1983, March and June 1984 and March 1985.
[See 222nd, 233rd, 234th and 238th Reports of the Committee, approved by the Governing Body.]
442.
Case No. 1185 was examined in the Committee's 233rd Report [see paras. 294-307 and 317] approved by the Governing Body at its February-March 1984 session.
The Committee also noted certain information communicated by the Government in January 1985 [See 238th Report, para. 9, approved by the Governing Body in February-March 1985].
443.
Case No. 1298 was examined in February-March 1985 and was the subject of an interim report approved by the Governing Body.
[238th Report, paras. 232-247.]
444.
The Government supplied certain information on these cases in communications of January, May and 29 October 1985.
445.
Nicaragua has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
Case No. 1129
446.
In Case No. 1129, the complainants alleged that as part of a systematic campaign by the Government to destroy the Central of Nicaraguan Workers (CTN), the authorities had physically assaulted members of the CTN working on the state-controlled banana estates and sugar plantations.
The official militia were said to have threatened the lives of CTN leaders.
In this connection the complainants stated that Luis Mora, President of the Press Workers' Union, and Salvador Sánchez, had allegedly been threatened in this way when they were under detention and that the police had attempted to make Salvador Sánchez sign a statement against the CTN.
Moreover, sugar workers belonging to the CTN had allegedly been prevented from entering their workplace and other members of this union had been allegedly arrested solely by reason of their membership and their involvement in union activities.
447.
During a direct contacts mission by a representative of the Director-General in December 1983, the leaders of the CTN had stated that the physical attacks by the authorities in state-controlled banana estates and sugar plantations were continuing.
The Ministry of Labour considered that the complaints should be more specific, since they did not indicate who made the death threats, or the date, place and circumstances in which the events supposedly took place.
According to the Government, the allegations of physical attacks and denial of entry to work centres were equally vague, as they gave no names, places or dates.
448.
At its February-March 1984 session, the Governing Body approved the following recommendations of the Committee:
(a)
The Committee requests the Government to take up the suggestion of the Director-General's representative that the Ministry responsible for agrarian reform should obtain further information and be informed of the allegations that members of the CTN have been physically attacked by the authorities on state-controlled banana estates and sugar plantations, and that sugar workers affiliated to the CTN have been prevented from entering their work centres;
the Committee also requests the complainant to transmit any further information it may have concerning this matter.
(b)
The Committee requests the Government to call for an investigation of the alleged threats by official militias against the lives of trade union leaders (specifically, Luis Mora and Salvador Sánchez) and to keep it informed of its findings."
449.
Subsequently, in its communication of 13 April 1984, the WCL complained of the arrest of several members of the CTN, whom it mentioned by name, and whose names also appear in Cases Nos. 1169 and 1298 which will be examined in the present working paper, with the exception of Eduardo Alberto Gutiérrez, Eric González González and Miltón Silva Gaitán.
Moreover, the WCL alleged that the Ministry of Labour refused to recognise the executive committees of a number of unions in the agricultural estates of Fátima and Las Mojarras at El Jicaral (department of León), of the La Concepción agricultural estate in Matagalpa, and of the Chinandega and Managua service stations, all members of CTN.
450.
In its communication of January 1985 the Government explained that prior to the Revolution, one banana workers' union had covered 16 banana plantations in the west of the country, and that following the change of régime this union had freely and voluntarily joined the Sandinista Central of Workers (CST).
During 1982 the owner of these plantations had embarked on dealings with the CTN in order to set up a union parallel to the one already existing.
451.
According to the Government, the CTN activist in this region was Pablo José Muñoz Bermúdez, one of the murderers of Dr. Pedro Joaquín Chamorro, director and owner of the newspaper La Prensa.
This individual used the pseudonym Juan José Ramos López to disguise his true identity.
With the support of the owner of the agricultural estates, this CTN activist had coerced workers into leaving the banana workers' union.
Serious clashes had taken place between the two groups, and the behaviour of the owner moreover constituted a violation of the labour laws and the provisions of Convention No. 98.
Once the true identity of the CTN leader was known, the workers reacted violently and the authorities had been obliged to intervene in order to avoid more serious consequences.
452.
Regarding the obstacles encountered by the CTN leaders in the sugar industry, the Government states that this union carried on its activities solely in the Xavier Guerra refinery.
In this factory acts of sabotage, such as throwing stones and metal rods into the machinery for the obvious purpose of damaging them, had taken place.
Those responsible had been dismissed in accordance with the law.
Some of them, moreover, had been subsequently reinstated in their employment.
453.
As regards the threats against Mr. Salvador Sánchez, the Government explained that this individual had been working at the Aldo Chavarría hospital, and that with the complicity of a physician in this establishment he had often obtained sick leave for the purpose of devoting all his time to political activities under the trade union cover of the CTN.
Moreover, he had stolen medicaments worth several thousand córdobas from the hospital for lucrative purposes.
When he had been discovered, he had taken refuge in the Venezuelan Embassy, alleging political persecution, whereas in reality he had been accused of an offence under the ordinary law.
He later went to Costa Rica, where he joined a counter-revolutionary organisation in which he had been placed in charge of a military force with which he had tried to occupy the frontier post at El Espino in October 1983.
He had then been captured, judged in accordance with the law of the land, and was now serving his sentence.
454.
As for Luis Mora, the Government stated that during his trial it had been proved that, during a trip to Costa Rica, he had been recruited by the ARDE organisation which had given him money and equipment for counter- revolutionary activities.
Luis Mora had admitted his crimes during a national television broadcast and had implicated leaders of the CTN.
The Government explained that, as this was his first offence, he had been pardoned in August 1984.
455.
Finally, the Government said that offences under ordinary law should not be used to damage the image of a government by taking advantage of the cover and the authority afforded by the ILO.
456.
The Government repeats its earlier statement in its reply of 27 May l985, but does not reply to the allegation relating to the refusal of the authorities to register the executive committees of certain trade unions.
Case No. 1169
457.
The allegations still pending in Case no. 1169 referred to the arrest of six persons, whose names were listed in Annex I to the Committee's 238th Report, and of 18 other trade union leaders or members whose names figured in Annex II to the same Report.
The complainants also alleged that members of the Trade Union of Dockers, Employees and Office Staff of Corinto Docks (SEEOMC), in particular Messrs. Danilo Contreras and René Argeñal, respectively President of the union and Treasurer of its Supervisory Board, had allegedly been obliged to leave the country because they had been harassed by the labour and military authorities.
458.
Regarding the alleged arrests of the six persons mentioned in Annex I, the Government replied that these were not trade unionists, nor were they any longer in prison.
It did not, however, indicate the concrete facts warranting these arrests.
459.
In connection with the imprisonment of the 18 trade union leaders or members whose names were listed in Annex II, the Government stated that it needed additional information in order to be able to reply to these allegations (workplace and present whereabouts, office held and union to which they belonged, place and date of the arrest and the grounds for it).
460.
The Committee accordingly requested the complainants to provide further details.
It nevertheless pointed out to the Government that the complainants had already provided a number of elements of information regarding the arrests concerned, in particular their date and place, so that the Committee hoped that the Government would be in a position to reply to these allegations at an early date.
461.
Regarding the harassment to which the members of the Trade Union of Dockers, Employees and Office Staff of Corinto Docks, in particular Messrs. Contreras and Argeñal, were said to have been subjected, the Government told the representative of the Director-General during the direct contacts mission of December 1983 that Mr. Contreras had voluntarily left the country after having cashed a cheque on 21 February 1983 for 12,740 córdobas, made out by an undertaking to the order of the SEEOMC. The cheque should have been deposited in the union's account as required by Nicaraguan law, but, with the connivance of a bank employee, Mr. Contreras was able to cash it.
As to René Argeñal, he left the country after taking 3,000 córdobas from the SEEOMC's petty cash.
462.
At its February 1984 session, the Committee noted this information but requested the Government to send the text of the final decision handed down in the matter of the alleged embezzlement of SEEOMC funds.
463.
The Government later said that it would send a copy of the court decision as soon as it had been given.
464.
At its February-March 1985 session, the Governing Body adopted the following recommendations of the Committee:
Bearing in mind that the Government has not indicated the precise facts warranting the arrest of six persons (mentioned in Annex I) whose subsequent release it confirms, the Committee wishes to draw the attention of the Government to the principle that measures designed to deprive trade union leaders and members of their freedom constitute a serious risk of interference in union activities and that, when such measures are taken on trade union grounds, they constitute an infringement of the principles of freedom of association.
The Committee requests the Government to indicate the concrete acts which gave rise to the arrest of these six persons.
Regarding the imprisonment of 18 trade union leaders and members (mentioned in Annex II), the Committee notes that the Government states that it needs additional information in order to be able to reply (workplace and present whereabouts, office held and union to which they belong, place and date of the arrest and grounds for it).
The Committee requests the complainants to provide as many details about these persons as they can obtain in the sense indicated by the Government.
The Committee nevertheless wishes to point out to the Government that the complainants have already provided a number of elements of information regarding the arrests concerned, in particular their date and place (see 233rd Report, paras. 255-256) for which reason the Committee considers that the Government should be in a position to reply to these allegations at an early date.
The Committee notes that the Government will transmit the results of the embezzlement proceedings affecting the trade union organisation SEEOMC as soon as the judgement is handed down.
465.
With its reply of 27 May 1985 the Government sends the judicial decision in the embezzlement proceedings affecting the Trade Union of Dockers, Employees and Office Staff of Corinto Docks, handed down by the Court of Appeal of León (criminal division) on 31 January 1984.
This decision confirms the sentence of imprisonment by the judge of the court of first instance at Chinandega pronounced in their absence against Messrs. Argeñal and Contreras, former President and Treasurer of the union, for theft from the said union, more precisely for the unlawful appropriation of the sums of 3,000 and l2,740 córdobas respectively, and for having left the country.
466.
In this communication the Government also indicates that it is endeavouring to collect information regarding the grounds for the arrest of the six persons mentioned in Annex I to the 238th Report, who have been released, and it repeats its willingness to explain the situation of the 18 other persons mentioned in Annex II to the 238th Report.
467.
In a subsequent communication dated 29 October 1985, as regards the six persons mentioned in Annex I, the Government states that Monico Fuentes was detained from 16 October 1982 to 7 January 1983 for having distributed counter-revolutionary tracts supporting what the Government refers to as a mercenary group (FDN), that Nicólas Gonzáles and Santos Ponce were detained from August to December 1982 for having delivered mail for the counter-revolutionary Rafaela Herrera, that Victoriano Ramos Jiménez was detained from 16 October 1982 to December 1983 for having given logistic support to the mercenary group (FDN), that Santos Larios Cornejo and Saturnino López Centeno were detained from 17 October 1982 to December 1983 for having recruited persons for the mercenary group FDN.
468.
As regards the 18 other detained trade unionists mentioned in Annex II, the Government states that:
(a)
Cresencio Carranza Jarquín and Guillermo Salmerón Jiménez were detained from April to December 1983 for having participated in a campaign against the Government;
(b)
José Angel Altamirano López was arrested in April 1983 for having directed a counter-revolutionary unit and for being found in illegal possession of weapons.
He belonged to the mercenary group ARDE and was sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment by the courts;
(c)
Mercedes Hernández Díaz was arrested in April 1983 for having recruited persons for the mercenary group ARDE and for having provided financial aid for the purchase of arms.
She was sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment;
(d)
Eleázar Marenco was arrested in April 1983 for having participated in several conspiratorial meetings and for having provided financial aid for the purchase of arms.
He was sentenced to six years' imprisonment;
(e)
Reynaldo Blandón, former Somosa national guardsman, was detained from 27 March to 12 September 1980;
(f)
Erik Luna was detained from 11 to 17 May 1983 for having known of the activities of counter-revolutionary elements linked to the ARDE;
(g)
José Angel Peñalosa was also detained from 11 to 17 May 1983 for his logistic support of the mercenary group ARDE;  and (h) Fidel López Martínez was detained from December 1982 to January 1983 for separatist propaganda activities.
The Government states that it will soon send information on the remaining cases.
Case No. 1185
469.
The allegations pending in Case No. 1185 referred to the arrest of Abelino González País on 2 February 1983 in El Pijao district, north of Matagalpa, simply for being a member of the Central of Nicaraguan Workers (CTN);
he was allegedly being held without charge at the central command post of Matagalpa.
470.
The complainants also alleged persecution, harassment, interrogation and threats by State Security agents against Hermógenes Aguirre Largaespada, an official of the Union of Employees and Manual Workers of Andes and Induquinisa (STAI) affiliated to the CTN, and Larry Lee Shoures, President of this union.
The former had been interrogated about the activities of his union on ten occasions and had been pressed to become an informer for the State Security forces.
Moreover, on 24 April 1983, a member of the Sandinista People's Army was said to have fired four shots at his house and insulted him and his family.
The following day, 20 people went to the homes of Messrs. Aguirre and Larry Lee Shoures, threatening to kill them and to set fire to their houses for being affiliated to the CTN and therefore counter-revolutionaries.
471.
At its February 1985 session, the Committee noted, in paragraph 9 of its 238th Report, the Government's statement in its communication of January 1985 that these persons were not detained and its request for further information on them to facilitate inquiries.
The Committee recalled that detailed allegations could be found in paragraph 295 of its 233rd Report and requested the Government to send a clear and precise reply on these allegations and on the situation of these trade unionists.
472.
In its communication of 27 May 1985, the Government stresses its intention to transmit to the Committee on Freedom of Association at a later date any information which it might obtain on the situation of Messrs. Hermógenes Aguirre Largaespada and Larry Lee Shoures, and on that of Mr. Abelino González País, and again confirms that the names of the persons concerned do not appear in the prison records.
Case No. 1298
473.
The allegations pending in the present case referred to the occupation of the headquarters of the Confederation of Trade Union Unity (CUS) on two occasions, once by a group of 20 persons on 18 August 1984 and a second time after groups of persons had broken in on 25 August 1984.
474.
The Government considered that these incidents were the result of divided opinions within the CUS as to whether it should remain within or withdraw from an opposition political group.
475.
In the complainants' view, on the other hand, the incidents were caused by the interference of public officials with a view to obtaining the CUS's withdrawal from this opposition movement.
476.
The complainants also sent in support of their complaint a statement by a legal adviser to the CUS, sworn before a notary, in which he states that he was subjected to threats and pressure in order to induce him to commit acts that would be instrumental in doing away with the CUS.
The person concerned stated that an official of the Ministry of the Interior had ordered him to seek out persons belonging to the CUS to support a group of persons not belonging to this organisation which had occupied its headquarters.
He had been forced to go to the CUS on 25 August to support the occupants, and had there met members and non-members of the CUS.
A general assembly had then been held at the CUS headquarters and, when the parties failed to reach an agreement, several persons had injured or harangued the true members of the CUS and partially destroyed its office.
477.
The complainants also stated that the police had done nothing to stop the attack on the CUS headquarters by certain groups on 25 August.
478.
At its February-March 1985 session the Governing Body approved the following recommendations of the Committee:
(a)
With respect to the occupation of the CUS headquarters on two occasions, and in order to be able to pronounce on this matter in full knowledge of the facts, the Committee requests the Government to send specific observations on the complainants' allegations that the occupation of the CUS premises on successive occasions resulted from interference by public officials (in particular, on the link between the State Security forces and the two persons who carried out the first occupation, and the notarised statements of the former legal adviser to the CUS concerning interference by the authorities in the two occupations of the CUS headquarters).
(b)
The Committee requests the Government to reply to the allegation that the police, in spite of being in the vicinity of the CUS headquarters on 25 August 1984 (the day on which the violent events mentioned in the complaint occurred) did nothing to avoid the attack by certain groups, intervening only when everything was over.
(c)
The Committee would point out that the climate of violence which forms the background to some of the allegations can only impede the free exercise of trade union rights.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to reply to the allegation concerning the arrest of José Agustín Téllez, Secretary-General of the Federation of Peasant Workers in Carazo (FETRACAMCA)."
479.
In its communication of 27 May 1985, the Government gives information on the judicial dissolution of the Union of Workers in Agricultural Enterprises of Masaya by court decision of 13 June 1984.
It also indicates that two new unions have applied for registration with the directorate of trade union organisations and that the latter is examining the applications.
It does not reply to the allegations pending in the present case regarding the occupation of the CUS headquarters and the arrest of the Secretary-General of the Federation of Peasant Workers in Carazo.
The Committee's conclusions
480.
In general, the Committee observes that the Government has supplied detailed replies on certain aspects of the present cases, but regrets that it has not replied to all the allegations.
481.
Regarding Case No. 1129, the Committee notes the detailed replies furnished by the Government regarding both the difficulties encountered by the officials of unions affiliated to CTN in conducting their union activities in plantations and in the sugar industry, and on the situation of Messrs. Luis Mora and Salvador Sánchez.
482.
In connection with the former point, the Committee notes that, according to the Government, the assaults on an official of the CTN were not attributable to the authorities and that the dismissals that had taken place in the only refinery in which the CTN was represented were due to acts of sabotage.
The Committee also has to note that, despite the request for additional information on this aspect of the case addressed to them in February 1984, the complainants have supplied no details in support of their allegations.
483.
As regards Messrs. Luis Mora and Salvador Sánchez, it would appear from the Government's observations that the former has been pardoned and the latter sentenced for activities unconnected with freedom of association.
484.
The Committee nevertheless notes with regret that the Government has still not replied to the most recent allegations of the WCL concerning the imprisonment of Eric González González, Miltón Silva Gaitán and Eduardo Alberto Gutiérrez, members of the CTN, and the refusal to register the executive committees of unions on the agricultural estates of Fátima and Las Mojarras in El Jicaral (department of León), the agricultural estate of La Concepción in Matagalpa and the Chinandega and Managua service stations, despite the fact that, according to the Government's reply on Case No. 1298, two new unions have been registered, of which it gives no further details.
The Committee requests the Government to send replies on these various points.
485.
With respect to Case No. 1169, the Committee notes the decision of the Court of Appeal of León (criminal division) of 31 January 1984 confirming the sentences of imprisonment pronounced in their absence against Messrs. Contreras and Argeñal, former President and Treasurer of the Supervisory Board of the Trade Union of Dockers, Employees and Office Staff of Corinto Docks, respectively convicted of having unlawfully appropriated the sums of 12,740 and 3,000 córdobas belonging to the union and of having fled the country.
486.
As regards the six persons mentioned in Annex I of the 238th Report, the Committee notes the information provided by the Government from which it appears that these persons were arrested in 1982 and released in 1983 for having distributed counter-revolutionary tracts or for having given logistic support to counter-revolutionary activities.
487.
As regards the 18 trade unionists mentioned in Annex II of the 238th Report, the Committee notes that the Government supplies information on nine of them from which it appears that three were sentenced to imprisonment for having directed counter-revolutionary activities or for possession or purchase of arms.
The six other persons on whom the Government supplies information were released after being detained for counter-revolutionary activities.
The Committee requests the Government to supply copies of the judgements handed down against these three persons and to indicate whether the nine other trade unionists mentioned by the complainants, namely Rito Rivas Amador, Iván Blandón, Víctor Ríos, Napoleón Aragón, Juan Ramón Duarte and his brother, Maximino Flores Obando, Anastasio Jiménez Maldonado and Gabriel Jiménez Maldonado are still in prison and, if so, to supply details on the specific reasons for their continued detention.
488.
With respect to Case No. 1185 the Committee notes the Government's assurances that the names of Abelino González País, Hermógenes Aguirre Largaespada and Larry Lee Shoures do not appear on the prison records.
489.
Nevertheless, bearing in mind that the two last-mentioned persons are alleged to have been subjected to reprisals and violence for having belonged to a trade union affiliated to the CTN, the Committee must firmly recall the importance it attaches to the conduct of trade union activities in full freedom.
It therefore urges the Government to make every effort to guarantee a climate favourable to the development of the various peaceful tendencies of the trade union movement in Nicaragua.
490.
Regarding Case No. 1298 the Committee notes with regret that the Government has not replied to the allegations still pending.
491.
It repeats its earlier request for an explanation of the occupation of the CUS headquarters on 18 August 1984, led by two persons alleged to have links with the State Security forces, as evidenced by the notarised statement of the former legal adviser to the CUS.
492.
It also again requests the Government to reply to the allegation that on the occasion of the second occupation of the CUS headquarters on 25 August 1984, the police did nothing to stop the attack and intervened only when everything was over, although they were in the vicinity of the organisation's headquarters.
493.
Finally, it again requests the Government to indicate whether José Agustín Téllez, Secretary-General of the Federation of Peasant Workers in Carazo, is in prison and if so, to indicate the grounds for his detention.
The Committee's recommendations
494.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report, and in particular the following conclusions:
Generally speaking, the Committee observes that, during its session in May 1985, the Government supplied detailed replies on certain aspects of the present cases, but regrets that it has not replied to all the allegations.
The Committee also deplores that the latest information supplied by the Government concerning the detention of trade unionists was only received by the Committee during its present meeting.
(a)
In Case No. 1129 the Committee notes that Mr. Mora has been pardoned and that Mr. Sánchez has been sentenced for activities unconnected with freedom of association.
(b)
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the allegations to which it has not replied regarding the imprisonment of three trade unionists mentioned by the complainants, the names of which are annexed to the present report, and on the refusal to register the executive committees of the agricultural unions of Fátima and Las Mojarras in El Jicaral (department of León) and of La Concepción in Matagalpa, and of the unions of service station workers in Chinandega and Managua.
(c)
In Case No. 1169 the Committee notes that of the 18 trade unionists mentioned by the complainants, six have been released and three have received prison sentences.
It requests the Government to supply copies of the judgements handed down against these three persons and to indicate whether the nine other trade unionists cited in the Annex are still in prison and, if so, to state the reasons for their detention.
(d)
In Case No. 1185 the Committee considers that, bearing in mind the allegations that trade union officials have been subjected to reprisals and violence for having belonged to a union affiliated to the CTN, it must recall the importance which it attaches to the exercise of trade union activities in full freedom.
It therefore urges the Government to make efforts to guarantee a climate favourable to the peaceful development of the different tendencies of the trade union movement in Nicaragua.
(e)
In Case No. 1298 the Committee notes with regret that the Government has not replied to the allegations still pending.
(f)
The Committee repeats its earlier request for an explanation of the occupation of the CUS headquarters on 18 August 1984, led by two persons alleged to have links with the State Security forces, as evidenced by the statement made by the former legal adviser to the CUS.
(g)
The Committee again requests the Government to reply to the allegation that, during the second occupation of the CUS headquarters on 25 August l984, the police did nothing to stop the attack and intervened only when everything was over, although they were in the vicinity of the organisation's headquarters.
(h)
The Committee again requests the Government to indicate whether José Agustín Téllez, Secretary-General of the Federation of Peasant Workers in Carazo, is in prison and if so, to indicate the grounds for his detention.
List of trade union activists and officials alleged by the complainants to be still in prison
Case No. 1129
Eric González González
Miltón Silva Gaitán
Eduardo Alberto Gutiérrez: CTN official arrested and violently dragged from his home in November 1983
Case No. 1169
Rito Rivas Amador: Arrested at Juigalpa (department of Chontales) in December l982
Iván Blandón          )	Arrested at Cascal-Nueva Quinca (department of Víctor Ríos           )	Zelaya) in April 1983 Napoleón Aragón       ) Juan Ramón Duarte and ) his brother
Maximino Flores Obando:
Arrested in the department of León in December 1982; sentenced to three years' imprisonment by the Sandinista People's Courts for organisation of the counter-revolution in the region
Anastasio Jiménez Maldonado)	No specific indications given by the Gabriel Jiménez Madonado   )	complainants
Cases Nos. 1176, 1195, 1215 and 1262
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE PERMANENT CONGRESS OF TRADE UNION UNITY OF LATIN AMERICAN WORKERS, THE AUTONOMOUS TRADE UNION FEDERATION OF GUATEMALA, THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS AND THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE OF TRADE UNION UNITY AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA
495.
The Committee examined Cases Nos. 1176, 1195 and 1215 at its November 1984 and May 1985 meetings and on both occasions submitted an interim report to the Governing Body [see 236th Report, paras. 401-525, and 239th Report, paras. 210-225, approved by the Governing Body at its 228th Session (November 1984) and 230th Session (May-June 1985), respectively].
The Committee also examined Case No. 1195 at an earlier meeting [see 230th Report, paras. 689-699, approved by the Governing Body at its 224th Session (November 1983)].
496.
At its meeting in February 1985, the Committee examined Case No. 1262 and submitted an interim report to the Governing Body [see 238th Report, paras. 269-281, approved by the Governing Body at its 229th Session (February-March 1985)].
497.
Subsequently, the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) and the World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) submitted new allegations in connection with Case No. 1195 in communications dated 13 June and 24 July 1985, respectively.
The Autonomous Trade Union Federation of Guatemalteca (FASGUA) presented further allegations in connection with Case No. 1215 in a communication dated 4 September 1985.
498.
The Government sent a certain number of observations in two communications dated 28 August 1985.
499.
Guatemala has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the cases
500.
When the Committee examined Cases Nos. 1176, 1195 and 1215 at its meeting in May 1985, it made the following recommendations regarding the allegations still pending [see 239th Report, para. 225]:
(a)
The Committee expresses its deep concern at the serious nature of the situation which is characterised by the detention, kidnapping, assault or assassination of trade union leaders and other persons connected with the trade union movement, all the more so since some of the allegations date from January 1983 and the whereabouts of the abducted persons remain unknown.
(b)
The Committee urges the Government to do its utmost to ensure that the investigations under way - which should be conducted by the judiciary - result in the whereabouts of those who have disappeared being clarified (Julián Revolorio, Raimundo Pérez, Yolanda Urízar, Manuel Francisco Contreras, José Luis Ramos, Luis Estrada, Víctor Ascón, Lucrecia Orellana, Gracida Samayoa and her two children and  Antonia Argüeta), the facts being elucidated in full, responsibilities being determined and the guilty parties being punished.
The Committee requests the Government to inform it of developments on this point.
(c)
The Committee draws the Government's attention to the principle that freedom of association can only be exercised in conditions in which fundamental human rights, and in particular those relating to the inviolability of human life and personal safety, are fully respected and guaranteed.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the allegations contained in FASGUA's communications of 10 October 1984 (the closing down of operations at the Universal Textiles Factory with a view to destroying the union and the kidnapping of the brother of the trade unionist Valerio Oscal) and 12 February 1985 (assault on, and kidnapping of, Mr. Sergio Vinicio Samayoa Morales), as well as on those contained in the communications from the ICFTU and ORIT dated 10 May 1985 (abduction of the trade union leader Felicita Floridalma Lucero).
c	501.
With respect to Case No. 1262, the Committee made the following recommendations concerning the allegations still pending at its meeting in February 1985 [see 238th Report, para. 281]:
(a)
The Committee expresses its deep concern at the serious nature of the allegations which refer, in particular, to many cases of kidnapping and disappearance or attempted kidnapping, as well as the serious physical assault of trade union leaders or trade unionists, and deplores the fact that the Government has not sent detailed information in this respect except as regards one person mentioned by the complainants.
(b)
As regards the attempted kidnapping of the trade union leader Alvaro René Sosa and the physical assault of which he was the victim, the Committee urges the Government to carry out a judicial inquiry with a view to elucidating the facts in full, determining responsibilities and punishing the guilty parties.
The Committee requests the Government to supply information on any such inquiry and on its outcome.
(c)
As regards the kidnapping and disappearance or attempted kidnapping of the other trade union leaders or trade unionists mentioned by the complainants (in one case the allegation concerns the kidnapping of the brother of a trade union leader who had escaped various attempts at capture), the Committee urgently requests the Government to carry out the necessary investigations to determine the whereabouts of the persons who have allegedly disappeared and to initiate a judicial inquiry with a view to elucidating the facts in full, determining responsibilities and punishing the guilty parties for the kidnappings or attempted kidnappings.
The Committee requests the Government to supply information on any such inquiry and on its outcome.

(d)
In general, the Committee draws to the Government's attention the principle that freedom of association can only be exercised in conditions in which fundamental human rights, and in particular those relating to human life and personal safety, are fully respected and guaranteed.
B.
New allegations
502.
In a communication dated 13 June 1985, the ICFTU refers to a mission which it sent from 27 January to 9 February 1985 to Central America, where among other countries it visited Guatemala.
According to information received by the mission, Guatemala is living in a state of insecurity because of the persistent policy of intimidation and terror employed against the population, while the practice of arrest and disappearance has become a standard and systematic instrument of repression from which an alarming number of victims have suffered, especially trade union leaders both in the towns and in the country.
503.
The ICFTU adds that the mission drew up a list of cases of arrest and disappearance, assassinations and attacks on trade union leaders and activists;   97 instances of arrest and disappearance and 37 assassinations were cited between 1980 and May 1985.
The list of trade union leaders and members who have disappeared or been kidnapped, assassinated or physically attacked appears in an annex to this report.
[This list does not include persons already cited in other cases brought before the Committee on Freedom of Association.]
504.
In its communication dated 24 July 1985, the WFTU refers to the kidnapping of trade union leader Felicita Floridalma Lucero, an allegation that was previously brought before the Committee in connection with Case No. 1195.
505.
In its communication dated 4 September 1985, FASGUA alleges that on 1 September 1985 the body was discovered of Eleazar Esaú Barrera Martínez, an employee of the textile factory Fábrica de Tejidos Imperial who had been kidnapped during mass demonstrations against the increase in prices and in support of wage claims.
According to FASGUA, his body was found hanging by the neck from an electric wire and bore signs of torture.
506.
FASGUA adds that on the morning of 4 September 1985 nurse Rita Josefina Pineda Aldana was kidnapped by armed men.
507.
Finally, FASGUA alleges that on 3 September 1985, 500 members of the National Army supported by 12 artillery trucks and about 20 tanks launched an attack on the University of San Carlos and searched every building, including the headquarters of the University Workers' Union where they caused extensive damage and seized trade union documents.
C.
The Government's reply
508.
The Government states in its communications dated 28 August 1985 that all the complaints concerning alleged violations of freedom of association communicated to it by the ILO have been passed on to the Ministry of the Interior with instructions to transmit to the Committee on Freedom of Association any information that may come to light as a result of its inquiries.
509.
The Government adds that a copy of the statement it received to the effect that Floridalma Lucero y Lucero and Amancio Samuel Villatoro had disappeared has been communicated to the competent tribunal and that investigations are being conducted to determine their whereabouts.
With respect to the disappearance of Julián Revolorio, Raymundo Pérez, Yolanda Urizar Martínez de Aguilar, Manuel Francisco Contreras, José Luis Ramos, Luis Estrada, Victor Ascón, Lucrecia Orellana, Graciela Samayoa and her children, Fermín Solano, Antonio Argüeta and Sergio Venicio Samayoa Morales, the Government states that none of the persons cited are being held in any of the country's detention centres but that inquiries are being made into their whereabouts.
The Government indicates that, in the case of investigations of this nature, the judiciary is duly informed by the General Directorate of the National Police through the competent tribunal.
510.
The Government states further that it has collaborated closely with the judiciary and the Supreme Court of Justice in the investigations into disappearances and in the habeas corpus proceedings.
The Head of State has accordingly set up a committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of National Defence, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of the Interior to determine the whereabouts of the persons listed as having disappeared;
in its efforts to arrive at the truth, the Committee has conducted an investigation throughout the country, issued the necessary orders to all state security forces and invited the civilian authorities to collaborate.
It appears from the investigations that the persons whose names appear on the list submitted by the Mutual Support Group to the committee are not being held in any penal or preventive detention centre in the country.
511.
The Government goes on to state that the investigations must be considered as being still under way since, inter alia, it has not yet been possible to obtain the list of Guatemalan citizens who have emigrated to Mexico in order to determine whether some of the persons who have disappeared are listed as official residents of that country.
The Government indicates that, at the request of the interested parties and in accordance with the law, the State Prosecutor's Office has initiated penal proceedings with the Court of First Instance and with the Justices of the Peace of the Penal Branch of the Departments of Petén, Quetzaltenango, Zacapa and Guatemala City in connection with alleged kidnappings and has taken part in proceedings already initiated.
The Government states that in the course of the investigations conducted in the various departments of the Republic, no allegations were made regarding the existence of detention centres other than the legally constituted penal centres for preventive detention and for the serving of prison sentences.
512.
The Government declares that the committee has conducted a thorough official investigation at the national level, employing all possible means at its disposal, and that its report constitutes the most thorough investigation of the problem of "disappeared persons" that the present Government has carried out in its efforts to establish the facts.
513.
Finally, with respect to the alleged closing down of operations at the Universal Textiles Factory, the Government states that the General Labour Inspectorate and the General Labour Directorate collaborated fully with the workers who had lodged a petition against its closure.
According to the Government, the workers and the undertaking reached an agreement which included the payment of compensation.
The only point on which agreement was not reached, despite the efforts of the General Labour Inspectorate, concerned five trade union leaders.
Charges were accordingly brought against the undertaking in June 1985 with the competent labour tribunal which has not yet handed down its ruling.
D.
The Committee's conclusions
514.
The Committee notes the Government's statement that the Head of State has set up a committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of National Defence, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of the Interior to determine the whereabouts of the persons listed as having disappeared and that the Committee has conducted a nation-wide investigation with the collaboration of the civilian and military authorities.
The Committee also notes that, according to the Government, the persons listed as having disappeared are not being held in any penal or preventive detention centre.
515.
The Committee notes that, according to the Government, inquiries have been made into the whereabouts of trade union leaders Felicita Floridalma Lucero y Lucero, Amancio Samuel Villatorio and Sergio Vinicio Samayoa Morales.
The Committee also notes the Government's statement that it has not yet been possible to establish the whereabouts of other kidnapped trade union leaders and members (Julián Revolorio, Raimundo Pérez, Yolanda Urízar, Manuel Francisco Contreras, José Luis Ramos, Luis Estrada, Víctor Ascón, Lucrecia Orellana, Graciela Samayoa and her two children, Fermín Solano and Antonia Argüeta).
The Committee regrets that the Government has not supplied any details on the other 31 trade union leaders and members who have disappeared or on the alleged assassination of 13 trade union leaders and members and physical attacks on another union leader.
The Committee further recalls that it had requested the Government to conduct a judicial inquiry into the attempted kidnapping and physical attacks on former trade union leader Alvaro René Sosa.
516.
In these circumstances, the Committee recalls in general terms that when a climate of violence prevails in a country, this renders the exercise of trade union rights practically impossible and also recalls, as did the International Labour Conference in its 1970 Resolution concerning trade union rights and their relation to civil liberties, that the absence of civil liberties removes all meaning from the concept of trade union rights and that the rights conferred on workers' and employers' organisations must be based on respect for those civil liberties.
It expresses its profound concern at the seriousness of a situation in which a large number of trade union leaders and members have been assassinated or have disappeared, particularly since some of the allegations date back several years and there is no sign of any improvement in the situation or of the facts being elucidated.
517.
The Committee urges the Government once again to do its utmost to ensure that the investigations under way result in the establishment of the whereabouts of the trade union leaders and members listed in the annex to this report as having disappeared.
The Committee requests the Government to ensure that these investigations cover all the trade unionists listed as having disappeared who have been cited by the complainants and to inform it of the outcome.
518.
With respect to the trade union leaders and members who have been assassinated or have suffered serious physical harm, the Committee notes that inquiries are being carried out by the administrative authorities.
It urges the Government to carry out judicial inquiries in order to elucidate the facts in full, determine responsibilities and punish the guilty parties. The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of the outcome.
519.
With respect to the alleged closing down of operations at the Universal Textiles Factory in order to destroy the trade union, the Committee observes that the Government does not refer specifically in its statement to the alleged anti-union nature of the closure of the factory.
The Committee therefore requests the Government to indicate the grounds for closing down operations at the factory.
520.
Lastly, the Committee observes that the Government has not replied to the alleged attack on the headquarters of the San Carlos University Workers' Union by National Army troops, and the serious damage caused and the seizing of trade union documents.
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the matter.
The Committee's recommendations
521.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee recalls in general terms that when a climate of violence prevails in a country, this renders the exercise of trade union rights practically impossible and also recalls that the absence of civil liberties removes all meaning from the concept of trade union rights, and that the rights conferred on workers' and employers' organisations must be based on respect for those civil liberties.
(b)
The Committee expresses its profound concern at the seriousness of a situation in which a large number of trade union leaders and members have been assassinated or have disappeared, particularly since some of the allegations date back several years and there is no sign of any improvement in the situation or of the facts being elucidated.
(c)
The Committee urges the Government once again to do its utmost to ensure that the investigations under way result in the establishment of the whereabouts of the trade union leaders and members listed in the annex to this report as having disappeared.
The Committee requests the Government to ensure that these investigations cover all the trade unionists listed as having disappeared who have been cited by the complainants and to inform it of the outcome.
(d)
With respect to the trade union leaders and members who have been assassinated or have suffered serious physical harm, the Committee notes that inquiries are being carried out by the administrative authorities.
It urges the Government to carry out judicial inquiries in order to elucidate the facts in full, determine responsibilities and punish the guilty parties. The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of the outcome.
(e)
With respect to the alleged closing down of operations at the Universal Textiles Factory in order to destroy the trade union, the Committee requests the Government to indicate the grounds for closing down operations at the factory.
(f)
Lastly, the Committee observes that the Government has not replied to the alleged attack on the headquarters of the San Carlos University Workers' Union by National Army troops, and the serious damage caused and the seizing of trade union documents.
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the matter.
ANNEX
LIST OF TRADE UNION LEADERS AND MEMBERS WHO HAVE DISAPPEARED OR BEEN ASSASSINATED
A.
Persons listed as having disappeared on whom the Committee has already requested information from the Government
1.
Julián Revolorio
2.
Raimundo Pérez
3.
Yolanda Azcón

4.
Manuel Francisco Contreras
5.
José Luis Ramos
6.
Luis Estrada
7.
Víctor Ascón
8.
Lucrecia Orellana
9.
Graciela Samayoa and her two children
10.
Fermín Solano
11.
Antonia Argüeta
12.
Sergio Vinicio Samayoa Morales
13.
Felicita Floridalma Lucero y Lucero
14.
Sr. Oscal
15.
Cecilio Tejax Coj
16.
José Guillermo Bran
17.
Miguel Angel Gómez
18.
José Luis Vilargrán
19.
José Guillermo García
According to the ICFTU, the body of this trade union leader was discovered on 23 September 1983 and bore signs of torture.
20.
Alejandro del Cid Hernández
21.
Amancio Samuel Villatoro
22.
Misquisidet Miranda
23.
Sergio Manfredo Peltetón
24.
Sergio Aldana Galván
25.
Edgar Fernando García
26.
Alfredo Aguilar Tzoc
27.
Alejandro Hernández González
28.
Otto René Estrada
29.
Rubén Amilcar Farfán
30.
Armando Ramírez Peña
B.
Persons whose disappearance has been alleged recently
31.
Julio César Pérez Gálvez (24 August 1980)
32.
Ileana Minera (24 August 1980)
33.
Miguel Guerra Duarte (March 1981)
34.
Abner Recinos Alfaro (11 August 1981)
35.
Juan José Alvarado (24 December 1981)
36.
Marta Lares Huitz (5 August 1982)
37.
Carmen Yolanda Mayorga (10 August 1982)
38.
Amanda de Díaz (27 September 1983)
39.
Julio Cermeño (17 November 1983)

40.
Alfonso Alvarado Plascencio (1 February 1983)
41.
Víctor Hugo Quintanilla and his wife (19 February 1983)
42.
Jerónimo López Díaz (14 August 1983)
43.
Edgar Morales Arias (13 January 1985)
44.
Carlos Humberto Carballo (17 January 1985)
45.
Rita Josefina Pineda Aldana (4 September 1985)
C.
Persons who have been assassinated or seriously wounded
46.
Máximo Vásquez Melgar (union leader assassinated on 5 May 1980)
47.
Gabriel Guzmán (union leader assassinated on 5 November 1981)
48.
Israel Rodríguez (union leader assassinated on 5 November 1981)
49.
Julio Raúl Calito Ardón (union leader assassinated on 1 January 1982)
50.
Edgar López Figueroa (union leader assassinated on 16 January 1982)
51.
Rubia Dorina García (trade unionist assassinated on 5 March 1982)
52.
Joaquín Darío Sagastume (trade unionist assassinated on 5 August 1982)
53.
Vicente Ordóñez (trade unionist assassinated on 13 August 1983)
54.
Marcelino Velázquez (trade unionist assassinated on 14 August 1983)
55.
Santiago López Aguilar (trade unionist assassinated on 17 February 1984)
56.
Alvaro René Sosa Ramos (former union leader who was the victim of an attempted kidnapping and received three bullet wounds on 13 March 1984)
57.
Silvio Matricardi (union leader whose body was discovered on 16 March 1984)
58.
Aurelio Coto Melgar (trade unionist whose body was discovered on 14 March 1985)
59.
Sebastián Quino Guarcas (union leader seriously wounded by government security forces on 23 May 1985)
60.
Esaú Barrera Martínez (trade unionist assassinated on 1 September 1985).
Cases Nos. 1204, 1275, 1301, 1328 and 1341
COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY PRESENTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, THE LATIN AMERICAN CENTRAL OF WORKERS AND THE INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF PLANTATION, AGRICULTURAL AND ALLIED WORKERS
522.
The International Confederation of Free Trade Unions presented the complaints corresponding to Cases Nos. 1204 (communications dated 20 and 27 May and 13 and 16 October 1983), 1275 (communication dated 17 April 1984), 1301 (communications dated 6 and 25 September 1984), and 1341 (communication dated 24 June 1985).
The Latin American Central of Workers (CLAT) presented the complaint corresponding to Case No. 1328 in a communication dated 6 April 1985.
523.
Having received certain observations from the Government, the Committee examined Cases Nos. 1204 and 1275 at its meeting in November 1984, and submitted interim reports to the Governing Body [see 236th Report of the Committee, paras. 426 to 443  and 444 to 458, approved by the Governing Body at its 238th Session (November 1984)].
524.
The Government representative at the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference (June 1985) subsequently handed in a number of documents containing certain information relating to Cases Nos. 1204, 1275 and 1301.
525.
At the 71st Session (Geneva, 1985) of the International Labour Conference, the Government representative of Paraguay informed the Committee on the Application of Standards that his Government had requested a direct contacts mission to deal specifically with the application of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 (both ratified by Paraguay).
526.
Following the discussion of the case of Paraguay in the Committee on the Application of Standards, the Government presented a communication dated 20 June 1985 to the Office, expressly requesting that the forthcoming direct contacts mission would also examine the cases pending before the Committee on Freedom of Association.
527.
The Director-General of the ILO appointed Mr. von Potobsky, a former official of the ILO, as his representative to carry out this mission, which took place from 23 to 27 September 1985 in Asunción, and which also included a visit to Buenos Aires on 21 September for the purpose of contacting and discussing with the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile (CPTE).
The representative of the Director-General was accompanied on the mission by Mr. Alberto Odero, a member of the Freedom of Association Branch of the Department of International Labour Standards, and Mr. Luis Zamudio, Regional Adviser on Standards.
The report on the mission is attached.
528.
Paraguay has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
* *   * 529.
Following the mission, the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) and the International Federation of Plantation, Agricultural and Allied Workers (IFPAAW), in communications dated respectively 2 and 3 October 1985, presented new allegations in connection with Case No. 1341.
These organisations alleged in their communications that Marcelino Corazón Medina, chairman of the Co-ordination Committee of Agricultural Producers, has been detained for over ten days, having been arbitrarily imprisoned in the police station in Asunción, where he is being subjected to physical and psychological torture and deprived of visiting rights.
He is now on a hunger strike and, since he is in a fragile state of health, it is feared that his life is in danger.
In a communication dated 15 October l985, the ICFTU states that Mr. Corazón Medina has been transferred, in a serious condition, to the prison hospital.
In addition, it alleges that for about 30 days the Government has arbitrarily imprisoned Sebastián Rodríguez (Secretary General of the Drivers' Trade Union of "Asunción-Fernando de la Mora" Line 21) for the sole reason of having organised a musical festival to raise funds for his unemployed colleagues.
The Government sent certain information in a communication dated 30 October 1985 in which it states, in particular, that Mr. Marcelino Corazón Medina has been released.
* *   * 530.
The Committee would first like to thank Mr. Geraldo von Potobsky for having accepted to carry out the direct-contacts mission, and for his detailed report on the cases under consideration, which has enabled the Committee to examine them.
The Committee considers that the report of the representative of the Director-General demonstrates the usefulness of missions of this kind in clarifying the issues raised in the allegations of the complainant organisations.
531.
Since the contents of the allegations and the information supplied by the Government, as well as the information obtained by the representative of the Director-General during the mission, are covered in the report on the mission, the Committee may proceed directly with its conclusions on each case.
A.
General conclusions
532.
The Committee takes note of the report of the representative of the Director-General on the mission carried out from 23 to 27 September 1985 in Paraguay.
The Committee also notes that, as the report on the mission states, the representative of the Director-General was provided with every facility by the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour to enable him to carry out the mission.
The Committee observes in this respect that information was obtained during the mission on all of the cases under consideration.
It regrets, however, that it was not possible to arrange an interview between the representative of the Director-General and the Minister of the Interior or a high official of that ministry, in connection with certain specific allegations falling within its sphere of competence which were made in the context of Cases Nos. 1204 and 1341.
B.
Conclusions on Case No. 1204
533.
Regarding the allegations as to detentions, the Committee observes that all of the persons concerned (nine) have been released.
The Committee regrets that the Government has failed to state the specific reasons for the detention of these persons, except in the case of Mr. Aldo Zuccolillo (detained for systematically and crudely harassing the Government in the publication "ABC Color") and of Mr. Jorge Alvarenga (a doctor detained for acts unrelated to trade unionism, according to the information supplied by the Government).
The Committee also observes that the Government denies in every case, either explicitly or implicitly, that the detentions were connected with trade union activities.
In these circumstances, in view of the lack of information in most cases on the specific reasons for the detentions, and given the time which has elapsed since the allegations were presented (May and October 1983), and the fact that all of the persons concerned have been released, the Committee draws attention in general terms to the principle that the arrest or detention of trade union leaders and trade unionists for activities connected with the exercise of trade union rights is contrary to the principles of freedom of association [see, for example, 218th Report, Case No. 1129 (Nicaragua), para. 477].
534.
As regards the difficulties encountered by the Union of Journalists of Paraguay (SPP) for several years in its attempts to obtain legal personality, the Committee observes that in 1983 the Labour Directorate notified the trade union that it could not be set up because of defects of substance such as the existence of another association for the same purposes.
The Committee also notes that there seems to have been a shift in the Government's position since then, since while it states that the SPP has not taken any steps since 1979 for its establishment, it affirms expressly that, from the legal standpoint, there is no reason why it should not be set up.
While the Committee regrets that the present secretary-general of the SPP did not attend the appointment arranged with the representative of the Director-General, it hopes that the Union of Journalists of Paraguay will apply for and be granted legal personality in the near future.
In addition, the Committee recalls that the existence of an organisation in a determined occupation should not constitute an obstacle to the establishment of another organisation, if the workers so wish.
535.
As regards the allegation of dismissal of workers from the "América Textil" undertaking, the Committee observes that there is a discrepancy between the contents of the allegations and the Government's statements.
While both agree that dismissals occurred in this undertaking, the complainant organisation alleged that they had taken place after the presentation of requests in the trade unions' list of claims.
The Government, however, stated that the dismissals (affecting 27 workers) had taken place a month before the trade union had applied to the authorities for recognition.
The Committee regrets that the América Textil undertaking has refused to meet with the representative of the Director-General of the ILO and that it has not been possible to obtain information which would clarify the facts.
In these circumstances, in view of the lack of sufficient information and given the proximity in time between the dismissals and the steps taken to set up a trade union in the undertaking concerned (a trade union which was not recognised because it failed to attain the number of members required by legislation, owing to the dismissals which took place), the Committee merely draws attention to the principle that no worker should be dismissed or subjected to other acts of discrimination in employment for carrying out trade union activities.
536.
Finally, the Committee notes that, according to the Government, there is no undertaking called "FRISA S.A." and that Radio Ñanduti was closed down not for the reasons given by the complainant organisation, but for political reasons.
C.
Conclusions on Case No. 1275
537.
The Committee notes that, according to the mission report, the Labour Appeals Court, by decision of 27 December 1984, decided in favour of the claims of the Union of Employees of the Bank of Brazil on the matters in dispute regarding the renewal of the collective agreement.
538.
As regards the dismissal of trade unionists Duarte, Virgili and Cáceres, the Committee notes the information provided in the report of the representative of the Director-General.
In view of the fact that this case is pending judgement in court, the Committee adjourns examination of this matter until judgement is pronounced and requests the Government to transmit a copy of the judgement as soon as it is handed down.
D.
Conclusions on Case No. 1301
539.
The Committee observes that in this case the complainant organisation has alleged that, between 18 August and 10 September 1984, Melanio Morel, Gregorio Ojeda, Pedro Zárate, Carlos Castillo and Nicasio Guzmán, all of whom are trade union leaders or trade unionists belonging to the National Union of Construction Workers (SINATRAC) were detained while setting up a trade union in the ACEPAR iron and steel plant.
The Committee also observes that three of these persons met with the representative of the Director-General and stated the following:  (1) they had intended to set up a works committee in the undertaking which was building the ACEPAR plant; (2) on 18 August 1984, as they were preparing for an assembly which they had called at the bus stop near the ACEPAR plant, and after they had been warned by the police that they should not hold the assembly, they were detained by members of the armed forces;  and (3) they had not been brought to trial.
540.
The Committee notes that, according to the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour with whom the representative of the Director-General met, ACEPAR is a semi-public undertaking located in the military zone and run by military personnel.
Moreover, according to the ministry authorities, the assembly which had been called was unauthorised and therefore could not be held.
The organisers of the assembly had consequently been detained by the armed forces.
They were later released without having been brought to trial.
541.
Although the Committee considers the fact that the legislation of a country, in order to prevent disruption of the public order, requires administrative authorisation for the organisation of meetings in public places does not run counter to the principles of freedom of association, it wishes to draw attention to the fact that given the absence of criminal acts in the present case, the mere fact of having organised a trade union assembly should not have resulted in the detention of the trade union leaders and trade unionists involved.
Therefore, the Committee regrets the detention of these trade union leaders and trade unionists and draws the attention of the Government to the fact that detention of trade union leaders for activities connected with the exercise of trade union rights is contrary to the principles of freedom of association [see, for example, 218th Report, Case No. 1129 (Nicaragua), para. 477].
Furthermore, in view of the fact that the period of detention lasted more than 20 days, and that none of the trade unionists was brought to trial, the Committee would emphasise the principle that any person who is detained should immediately be brought before the competent court.
542.
Finally, the Committee notes that, according to the detainees themselves, they were not dismissed, as they do not work in an employment relationship but as a crew engaged under a contract for services, although since being detained they have been unable to obtain contracts with building enterprises, only with individuals.
The Committee also notes that, according to the authorities, the persons concerned do not appear to be actually working in the construction industry.
E.
Conclusions of the Committee on Case No. 1328
543.
The Committee observes that the complainant organisation mainly objects to the recognition by the Ministry of Labour on 17 October 1984 of the executive committee elected at an assembly to reorganise the National Union of Construction Workers (SINATRAC), held on 13 October 1984 and led by the Secretary-General of that organisation, Milciades Giménez Díaz, a supporter of government policy.
544.
The Committee also observes that, some months earlier, on 11 March 1984, a split occurred in the executive committee of SINATRAC, dividing it into two different factions:  one headed by Milciades Giménez Díaz, Secretary-General of SINATRAC, and the other by Lino Gómez, Deputy Secretary-General of SINATRAC.
Each faction organised an assembly to elect a new executive committee, as the term of office of the existing committee was due to expire on 18 October 1985.
Thus, the faction led by Milciades Giménez Díaz called an assembly on 13 October 1984, while the faction led by Lino Gómez called another for 14 October 1984, although the latter was postponed by the police and was held on 21 October 1984.
545.
On 17 October 1984, as stated, the Government recognised the executive committee elected at the assembly of 13 October 1984 led by Milciades Giménez Díaz.
However, when it was informed of the executive committee elected on 21 October 1984 at the assembly led by Lino Gómez, the competent authority of the Ministry of Justice and Labour notified Lino Gómez on 21 November 1984 of the text of a decision of the legal consultant's office stating that recognition could not be granted since "by Resolution No. 1717 dated 17 October of the current year the Labour Directorate registered the National Union of Construction Workers, whose executive committee is currently in office, and its term of office is due to expire in 1987 according to its statutes".
A subsequent decision issued by the legal consultant's office, notified by the Director of Labour on 15 February 1985, stated that an appeal could be lodged through the administrative disputes procedure.
546.
The Committee concludes that the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour, aware of the existence of two assemblies to elect a new executive committee, appear to have based their recognition of one of the committees on considerations of time alone, that is, on the fact that the executive committee elected at the assembly led by Milciades Giménez Díaz was the first to apply for recognition.
The Committee observes that the competent authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour, referring to the allegations, told the representative of the Director-General that the situation was sometimes confusing, in the general context of the internal disagreement among the members of the executive committee of SINATRAC.
According to the ministry authorities, once Lino Gómez had been informed of the decision to recognise the executive committee elected on 13 October 1984, he could have lodged an administrative appeal against that decision.
547.
The Committee considers that, irrespective of whether such an appeal was possible (which Lino Gómez's group denies), the decision of 17 October 1984 of the Ministry of Justice and Labour to recognise the executive committee elected by the assembly of 13 October 1984 constitutes a decision that was arbitrary and taken in too great haste. The Ministry was fully aware that another duly convened assembly was to be held a few days later (on 21 October) for the same purpose.
The Committee would like to point out that when internal disputes arise in a trade union organisation they should be resolved by the persons concerned, by appointing an independent mediator with the agreement of the parties concerned, or by intervention of the judicial authorities.
F.
Conclusions on Case No. 1341
548.
The Committee observes that the representative of the Director-General was able to note the police surveillance and shadowing to which Ricardo Esperanza Leiva, former leader of the Liebig Refrigeration Union and leader of the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile (CPTE), is being subjected.
The Committee requests the Government to alter what it calls the methods of protecting the life and safety of Mr. Leiva so that, if considered objectively, there can be no confusion with police surveillance.
549.
Furthermore, the Committee notes that, according to the Government, Mr. Marcelino Corazón Medina has been released.
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the alleged torture of this trade union leader indicating what were the concrete facts leading to his detention, as well as on the alleged detention of Sebastián Rodríguez, Secretary-General of the Drivers' Union of Line 21.
The Committee's recommendations
550.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
The Committee notes that a direct contacts mission visited the country from 23 to 27 September 1985.
Case No. 1204
(a)
The Committee draws attention in general terms to the principle that the arrest or detention of trade union leaders and trade unionists for activities connected with the exercise of trade union rights is contrary to the principles of freedom of association.
(b)
In view of the fact that, according to the Government, there is no reason from the legal standpoint why the Union of Journalists of Paraguay should not be set up, the Committee hopes that this union will apply for and be granted legal personality in the near future.
(c)
The Committee draws attention to the principle that no worker should be dismissed or subjected to other acts of discrimination in employment for carrying out trade union activities.
Case No. 1275
(a)
The Committee notes that, according to the mission report, the Labour Appeals Court, by decision of 27 December 1984, decided in favour of the claims of the Union of Employees of the Bank of Brazil on the matters in dispute regarding the renewal of the collective agreement.
(b)
The Committee notes that the matter of the dismissal of trade unionists Duarte, Virgili and Cáceres is pending judgement in court.
The Committee adjourns its examination of this matter until judgement is pronounced, and requests the Government to transmit a copy of the judgement as soon as it is handed down.
Case No. 1301
(a)
The Committee regrets the detention of five trade union leaders and trade unionists of the National Union of Construction Workers.
(b)
The Committee reiterates the principle that the detention of trade union leaders for activities connected with the exercise of trade union rights is contrary to the principles of freedom of association.
(c)
In view of the fact that the period of detention lasted more than 20 days and that none of the five trade unionists was brought to trial, the Committee stresses the principle that any person who is detained must be brought without delay before the competent court.
Case No. 1328
(a)
The Committee considers that the decision of 17 October 1984 of the Ministry of Justice and Labour to recognise the executive committee of SINATRAC, elected by the assembly held on 13 October 1984, taken in full awareness that another regularly convened assembly was to be held for the same purpose a few days later on 21 October, constitutes an arbitrary and too speedy decision.
(b)
The Committee draws attention to the fact that when internal disputes arise in a trade union organisation, they should be resolved by the persons concerned, by appointing an independent mediator with the agreement of the parties concerned, or by intervention of the judicial authorities.
Case No. 1341
(a)
The Committee requests the Government to change what it calls the methods of protecting the life and safety of Mr. Leiva so that, if objectively considered, there can be no confusion with police surveillance.
(b)
The Committee notes that Mr. Marcelino Corazón Medina has been released.
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the alleged torture of this trade union leader stating what were the concrete facts leading to his detention, as well as on the detention of Sebastián Rodríguez, Secretary-General of the Drivers' Trade Union of Line 21.
ANNEX
REPORT OF MR. GERALDO VON POTOBSKY ON THE DIRECT CONTACTS MISSION CARRIED OUT IN PARAGUAY (23-27 SEPTEMBER 1985)
1.
At the 71st Session of the International Labour Conferenc (Geneva, 1985), the Government representative of Paraguay informed the Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations that "his Government has requested a direct contacts mission to deal specifically with the application of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98" (both ratified by Paraguay), and pointed out that "the direct contacts will be carried out with the presence of the three groups (government, employers' organisations and workers' organisations).
The Workers' member of Austria (Mr. Maier) "hoped that when the direct contacts mission went to Paraguay it would also deal with the cases pending before the Committee on Freedom of Association".
2.
For their part the Workers' members of Uruguay and Argentina expressed their hope that the mission would be able to make contact with the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile.
3.
Following the discussion of the case of Paraguay in the Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, the Government sent to the Office a communication dated 28 June 1985 in which it expressedly requested that the direct contacts mission to be carried out should also examine the cases pending before the Committee on Freedom of Association.
4.
The Director-General of the ILO appointed me as his representative to carry out this mission, which took place between 23 and 27 September in Asunción and which also included a visit to Buenos Aires on 21 September with a view to establishing contact and holding discussions with the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile (CPTE).
I was accompanied on the mission by Mr. Alberto Odero, member of the Freedom of Association Branch of the International Labour Standards Department, and by Mr. Luis Zamudio, Regional Adviser on standards.
5.
During the mission we met Mr. Eugenio Jacquet, Minister of Justice and Labour, and Mr. Carlos Doldán del Puerto, Director of Labour, and had several meetings with the latter and his collaborators.
We also spoke with representatives of the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers (CPT), the Federation of Production, Industry and Commerce (FEPPINCO), the Paraguayan Industrial Union, the Federation of Bank Employees (FETRABAN) and the National Union of Building Workers (SINATRAC) as well as other trade union leaders, trade unionists and interested parties.
The list of these persons appears at the end of this report.
6.
It was not possible to arrange a meeting with the Minister of the Interior or any other high official of this Ministry, before whom we should have liked to place certain specific allegations falling within their sphere of competence (Cases Nos. 1204 and 1341) in order to obtain information and comments.
7.
During the meeting with the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile (CPTE), its leaders provided us with information on the trade union situation in their country and expressed their surprise that this had been the first time that the ILO was carrying out a mission of this kind in Paraguay.
Furthermore, they made a formal observation concerning the time which had elapsed concerning the examination of the complaints presented.
Finally, they requested that the Ministry of Justice and Labour should be informed concerning the imminent return to the country of Mr. Julio Etcheverry Espínola, Secretary-General of the organisation, who hoped to be able to enjoy all his constitutional rights.
The Minister of Justice and Labour stated that Mr. Etcheverry would enjoy these rights like any other citizen, provided that he observed the law of the country.
8.
I should like to place on record that I was given every assistance by the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour in carrying out the mission for which I am extremely grateful.
I should also like to thank all those persons interviewed for the information which they provided.
9.
The present report includes various documents which we received during the course of the mission for the purposes of our inquiry.

Cases pending before the Committee on Freedom of Association
10.
At present five complaints against the Government of Paraguay (Cases Nos. 1204, 1275, 1301, 1328 and 1341) are pending before the Committee on Freedom of Association.
The Committee examined Cases Nos. 1204 and 1275 at its meeting of November 1984 (see 236th Report of the Committee, paragraphs 426-44 and 448-458) and presented an interim report to the Governing Body since the Government had not responded to certain matters or was requested to provide additional information.
11.
The Government representative to the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference handed the Office a series of documents which contained information concerning Cases Nos. 1204, 1275 and 1301.
No observations from the Government were received concerning Cases Nos. 1328 and 1341.
12.
During the mission we discussed the matters raised in the cases before the Committee on Freedom of Association with officials of the Ministry of Labour and various interested parties.
Case No. 1204
13.
This complaint was presented by the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions in communications dated 20 and 27 May, 13 October and 16 December 1983.
The Government sent certain observations in a communication dated 14 September 1984.
The Committee on Freedom of Association examined the case, as already noted, at its meeting of November 1984 and made the following recommendations which summarise with sufficient clarity the matters which remained pending (see 236th Report, paragraph 443):
(a)
Regarding the arrest of 19 members of the the Trade Union Solidarity Movement (MSS) as part of a campaign of repression following the setting up of this organisation, the Committee observes that, according to the Government, one of the persons concerned is a fugitive from justice who has not been arrested and 13 others were released without the judicial authorities upholding any charges against them.
The Committee deeply regrets that these 13 trade unionists were deprived of their freedom for more than a year in most cases and draws the Government's attention to the fact that the arrest and detention of trade union leaders and trade unionists for trade union reasons constitute a violation of the principles of freedom of association.
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the arrest of Stella Rufinelli, Margarita Elías, Damián Vera, Juan Carlos Oviedo and María Herminia Feliciangeli following the setting up of the MSS of which they are said to be members.
(b)
The Committee regrets that the Government has not replied to the remaining allegations:  the difficulties encountered by the Union of Journalists of Paraguay (SPP) for the past four years in its attempts to obtain legal personality;  the threatened exile of the leaders and members of the SPP; the arrest and trial of the leader of the SPP, Alcibiades González del Valle;  the arrest of Aldo Zucalillo, director of ABC Color for allowing the publication of matters of trade union interest;  the threats against, harassment of and restrictions imposed on this newspaper for publishing the setting up of the MSS;  the arrest of Dr. Jorge Alvarenga and Dr. Carlos Cuevas during a round-table discussion on "trade unionism and repression"; the arbitrary dismissal of the workers from the La Americana SA textile company following the submission by the trade unions of a list of demands; the threatened dismissal of 800 workers of the FRISA SA company following the request by the trade unions for payment of unpaid wages;  the closing down of Radio Ñandutí for transmitting messages from the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile and a ban on the commentator and director of the radio station from exercising his profession.
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on this matter without delay.
14.
The Government provided the following information during the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference:
- All the persons arested for infractions of Act No. 209 to which the complainant had referred are now free.
María Herminia Feliciangeli was held under arrest between 11 May and 18 September 1983;  Margarita Elías Acosta, from 11 May to 18 September 1983;  María Estela Rufinelli, from 11 to 30 May 1983;  Juan Carlos Oviedo, from 11 to 16 May 1983;  and Pedro Damían Vera, from 12 to 24 May 1983.
- The Union of Journalists of Paraguay requested its recognition in 1979.
The authorities noted substantial errors in the setting up of the trade union which needed to be remedied;
in particular, an association with the same objectives, called the Press Association of Paraguay, already existed and furthermore opposed the establishment of a new trade union;
moreover, there was no unanimous agreement between the supporters of the trade union concerning its creation since a group of journalists opposed its establishment.
In the circumstances, the Labour Directorate informed the applicants on 6 September 1983 that they would first of all have to resolve their existing internal problems before any decision could be taken concerning the recognition of the union.
Since then, none of the necessary formalities has been taken with a view to the registration of the union.
- Carlos Cuevas Miranda, a doctor, was arrested on 4 July 1983.
Legal proceedings were initiated against him for infraction of Act No. 209.
He was released from prison on 11 July 1983 on the instructions of the Judge of the Penal Court of the First Instance and at the present time is living and exercising his profession near Caaguazú.
- Jorge Alvarenga Galeano, who was born in Buenos Aires, was arrested on 22 June 1983 opposite the Faculty of Engineering, for shouting slogans against the country, the Government and the authorities whilst meeting with a group of students who had been suspended by the rector of the National University.
On 5 July 1983 he was deported to Buenos Aires but re-entered Paraguay on 6 February 1984 and left again on his own initiative on 10 February 1984 without any intervention by the Paraguayan authorities.
- In the América Textil undertaking a trade union requested recognition of its occupational status on 26 December 1979. The Labour Inspectorate observed that it did not have the number of members required by law since a large number of the applicants were in fact workers who had been dismissed or who had received advance notice of dismissal.
Subsequently, no new steps have been taken with a view to its registration.
- With respect to the allegation concerning the FRISA SA undertaking, no information is available in the Labour Directorate concerning the threats of dismissal alleged by the complainant.
15.
During the mission we were able to gather the following information on these various matters.
16.
With regard to the alleged detention of Stella Rufinelli and four other persons following the establishment of the MSS, the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour stated that these persons were free (in conformity with the information supplied by the Government representative to the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference), that they had been arrested during an investigation into the "Paraguayan Data Bank" affair and that they were never taken to court.
We were informed that the "Paraguayan Data Bank" was an intelligence unit which acted as the headquarters for conspiratorial activities of a Marxist-Leninist nature.
Under the cover of its supposed data processing activities, its real function was of a subversive nature.
17.
As regards the alleged difficulties of the Union of Journalists of Paraguay (SPP) over the past four years to obtain legal personality, the authorities of the Ministry referred to the information supplied by the Government representative to the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference and stressed that this trade union had taken no new steps with a view to obtaining legal personality and that there was no legal impediment to the establishment of the trade union.
We invited Mr. José Gaspar Meaurio, the current Secretary-General of the trade union, to a meeting to discuss these matters, but he did not attend.
As regards the arrest and prosecution of Mr. Alcibiades González del Valle, leader of the Union of Journalists of Paraguay, the authorities of the Ministry pointed out that this person is free and freely exercising his professional activity at the present time.
In the past he had been arrested on several occasions but never for trade union reasons.
It should be noted that Mr. González del Valle, who is no longer the Secretary-General of the Union of Journalists of Paraguay, was invited to meet with the representative of the Director-General of the ILO but did not come.
18.
As regards the arrest of Mr. Aldo Zuccolillo, Director of the newspaper ABC Color, for permitting publications on trade union events, the authorities of the Ministry pointed out that the reason for the arrest was not that given by the complainant but rather his systematic and abusive harassment of the Government.
Furthermore, they emphasised that Mr. Zuccolillo had never allowed the establishment of any trade union in the undertakings of which he is the owner.
Finally, they stated that trade union newspapers which published articles of a critical nature existed in the country and that such publications had never been the subject of any penalties or warnings.
19.
As regards the arrest of Messrs. Carlos Cuevas and Jorge Alvarenga Galeano, the authorities of the Ministry stated that they were not trade unionists, that their detention was not related to trade union matters and that they were released without legal proceeding being brought against them.
20.
As regards the alleged arbitrary dismissal of workers of the América Textil undertaking following the submission by the trade unions of a list of demands, the authorities of the Ministry stated that 27 workers were dismissed in December 1979.
In January 1980 a works union requested recognition in the Ministry but this was refused since of its founding members only 12 were actually employed (the Labour Code stipulates a minimum number of 30).
In any event, the dismissed workers accepted the legal indemnities.
It should be noted that the América Textil undertaking refused to meet with the representative of the Director-General of the ILO.
21.
As regards the allegations concerning the FRISA S.A. undertaking, the authorities of the Ministry stated that no undertaking existed with that name.
22.
Finally, with respect to the closing down of the Ñandutí radio station, the authorities of the Ministry denied that the reason for this action was the transmission of messages from the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile.
The radio station was closed for political reasons.
They stated that in Paraguay radio stations are not closed down for giving news or messages of a trade union nature.
Case No. 1275
23.
This complaint was presented by the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions in a communication dated 17 April 1984.
The Government sent certain observations in a communication dated 14 September 1984.
The Committee on Freedom of Association examined the case, as noted earlier, at its meeting of November 1984, and made the following recommendations which summarise with sufficient clarity the matters which remained pending (see 236th report, paragraph 458):
(a)
The Committee expresses the hope that the Labour Court will shortly decide the points of contention in connection with the renewal of the collective agreement between the Union of Employees of the Bank of Brazil and this same bank, which expired on 30 January 1983. It draws attention to the obligation on both employers and trade unions to bargain in good faith to reach an agreement and stresses that satisfactory labour relations depend primarily on the attitudes of the parties towards each other and on their mutual confidence.
The Committee requests the Government to inform it of the Labour Court's decision on this case.
(b)
The Committee requests the Government to inform it of the outcome of the judicial appeal concerning the dismissal of Messrs. Rolando Duarte, Adolfo Virgili y Guillermo and Guillermo Cáceres, members of the Union of Employees of the Bank of Brazil.
24.
The Government had sent copies of certain documents concerning the alleged dismissals, but had not sent the text of the judgement.
Neither had it sent the text of the judicial decision on the points of contention related to the renewal of the collective agreement.
25.
During the mission we were able to gather the following information on these various matters.
26.
The authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour provided the text of the decision of the Labour Appeal Court dated 27 December 1984 upholding the claims of the Union of Employees of the Bank of Brazil concerning the points of contention regarding the renewal of the collective agreement.
The management of the Bank of Brazil and leaders of the Federation of Bank Employees pointed out that the Bank of Brazil and the trade union of this institution had recently signed a new collective agreement.
27.
As regards the alleged dismissal of Messrs. Roland Duarte, Adolfo  Virgili and Guillermo Cáceres, members of the Union of Employees of the Bank of Brazil, the leaders of the Federation of Bank Employees who were interviewed stated that these dismissals were illegal since they violated the provisions of section 285 of the Labour Code (maintenance of the employment relationship during the settlement of labour disputes procedure).
They pointed out that although the undertaking claimed that the dismissals were made in order to reduce costs they were, in fact, due to trade union activities.
Messrs. Virgili and Cáceres were very active members of the trade union and Mr. Roland Duarte was its former Deputy Secretary-General.
Furthermore, if the argument concerning the reduction of costs were true, the Bank could have dismissed other persons since 20 workers were nearing retirement and their departure from the undertaking would not have prevented them from receiving their legal retirement benefits.
In the same way, when the arbitration award was made concerning the points of contention in the new collective agreement, and which upheld the claims of the trade union, the undertaking dismissed two further members.
28.
The management of the Bank of Brazil denied that the dismissal of Messrs. Duarte, Virgili and Cáceres was of an anti-trade union nature or related to collective bargaining.
All the workers of the Bank were members of the trade union and the dismissed workers were not members of the executive board of the trade union.
The dismissal of the workers in question was due to administrative reasons and not to a reduction in costs and the workers concerned received the compensation prescribed by law.
Subsequent to these measures there was only one other dismissal, that of a worker in another branch of the Bank, and the departure from the undertaking of a secretary by mutual agreement.
The secretary went to work in another banking institution.
29.
The authorities of the Ministry stated that no definitive ruling had been issued concerning the dismissals and that the judiciary had indicated that such a ruling was imminent.
Cases Nos. 1328 and 1301
30.
It appears appropriate to treat these two cases together and in the above-mentioned order because of the close relationship which exists between specific aspects of these cases and a full understanding of the matters in question.
Case No. 1328
31.
The complaint appears in a communication from the Latin American Central of Workers (CLAT) dated 6 April 1985.
The Government has still not furnished a reply.
32.
The CLAT alleges in particular that the authorities have limited the right of the National Union of Building Workers (SINATRAC) to elect its representatives in full freedom.
33.
More precisely, the CLAT alleges that the Labour Directorate stated in a communication of September 1984 that the extraordinary assembly held on 11 March 1984 to replace the Secretary-General of SINATRAC, Mr. Milciades Giménez Díaz for failure to fulfil his duties, was null and void for procedural reasons.
According to the complainant, the real reason for this measure was that the above-mentioned trade union leader supported the anti-trade union policy of the Government.
CLAT encloses a copy of the communication from the Labour Directorate (dated 19 June 1984) in which it is stated that SINATRAC "should have justified previously that it had observed the provision of Article 6 of its by-laws.
Thus the copy of the ABC newspaper presented contains only information of a journalistic nature which cannot be considered as the convocation of an assembly of its members which would have legal force".
34.
CLAT adds that the ordinary general assembly of SINATRAC which had been called by the trade union executive for 14 October 1984 was suspended by the authorities.
CLAT includes a copy of a communication from the Labour Directorate dated 31 October 1984 stating that those who called the assembly "were not accredited members of the trade union and thus are not empowered to call an assembly".
35.
CLAT adds that the ordinary general assembly was then convened for 2l October 1984;
it took place in normal conditions with the members of the union and presented in good time its request to the Labour Directorate for recognition of the executive committee.
However, this request was rejected on the grounds that "an executive committee had already been recognised on the same date" when in fact - the complainant goes on - this had occurred without the convening of an assembly or the observance of any of the necessary requirements and within a period of 24 hours.
As a consequence, a complaint was lodged which was not answered, thus preventing a discussion of the matter in other bodies, including in the courts (it should be noted that CLAT sends as an annexure a communication from the Labour Directorate which implicitly refers to the possibility of lodging an administrative appeal).
36.
CLAT concludes by pointing out that the leader recognised by the authorities does not represent the working classes and has always acted like a vigilante against the interests of his trade union comrades.
37.
In order to obtain information on this complaint, which basically deals with the rift which occurred in the executive committee of SINATRAC and its consequences, we consulted the representatives of both groups as well as the competent authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour.
38.
We met with Messrs. Lino Gómez,  Gregorio Ojeda and Melanio Morel, who stated that they were respectively Secretary-General, Assistant Secretary-General and Financial Secretary of SINATRAC.
These persons belong to the group which presented the complaint to the ILO.
They furnished us with various documents to support and supplement their oral statements.
39.
According to the information provided, during the extraordinary assembly of 11 March 1984 the question was implicitly raised of unionising the workers of the Yaciretá dam and the private firm which was constructing the future plant of ACEPAR (Paraguayan Steelworks).
All those present supported this action by the trade union although the Secretary-General, Mr. Melcíades Giménez Díaz, opposed it.
The latter, having refused to read a document which was given to him concerning this matter, decided to leave the meeting accompanied by the Clerk, Mr. Sixto Fleitas.
In the circumstances, the participants decided to elect Mr. Lino Gómez (who until then had been the Assistant Secretary-General) as the new Secretary-General.
He was to exercise his mandate until the month of October 1984, when the term of the executive committee was due to expire.
At the same time, the assembly reorganised the executive committee and sent the corresponding notice to the Labour Directorate with a view to obtaining recognition of this committee.
40.
In reply, they were informed in a note of 19 June 1984 of the legal ruling of 7 June concerning the need to fulfil, before the holding of the assembly, the statutory regulations concerning the publication of the convocation in a newspaper.
In a note of 3 July 1984, issued by the new executive committee, it was explained to the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour that it had not been possible to publish the convocation due to lack of money but that the news item which had appeared in the ABC Color newspaper compensated for this shortcoming.
Furthermore, approximately 80 members of the trade union out of a total of 120 had attended the assembly, which was well beyond the required quorum.
Despite these explanations, the Labour Directorate issued a resolution dated 6 September 1984 which rejected the recognition of the executive committee and based its decision on the failure to observe the above-mentioned statutory provision.
41.
In these circumstances, the complainants add, the failure to recognise this new Committee implied that the previous committee remained in existence.
Seven members of this committee (out of a total of 11), including Messrs. Lino Gómez and Gregorio Ojeda, decided to convene an ordinary assembly of the trade union for 14 October 1984.
This decision was communicated to the Ministry on 26 September and the convocation was published in a newspaper in accordance with the union's by-laws.
In the same way notification was sent to the police which replied that the assembly would have to be postponed until 21 October.
For its part, the Legal Department of the Labour Directorate decided that the applicants were not accredited members (of the executive committee) of the trade union, and thus could not convene the assembly.
This decision was communicated to them on 31 October.
The assembly took place on 21 October and recognition of the elected executive committee was requested in a note dated 24 October 1984.
The competent authority of the Ministry replied by providing the text of another legal opinion which stated that, by Resolution No. 1717 dated 17 October 1984, recognition had already been granted to another executive committee of the trade union and that for this reason the applicants' request could not be accepted.
42.
According to the complainants, what had in fact happened was that without their knowledge, another assembly had been held on 13 October 1984 which had been called by the members of the original executive committee who had remained in a minority.
In the extraordinarily short period of four days, which is unprecedented, this new committee was recognised whereas normally such a process requires more than one month.
This would also explain the instructions from the police to postpone the date of the assembly from 14 to 21 October.
43.
The complainants state that they have never been able to obtain a copy of the text of the formal resolution which rejects their request for recognition of the executive committee elected at the assembly of 21 October 1984.
They have presented and verified before the Ministry the request for recognition of this executive committee and the request for the annulment of the recognition granted to the committee elected on 13 October 1984 (notes dated 28 November and 23 January 1985).
In the note dated 28 November it is stated that the so-called assembly of 13 October did not legally take place, that those who convened it did not have the power to do so, that they did not publish the convocation notice as required, that they did not have rosters available, were not up to date in their contributions and had not distrubuted circulars concerning the convocation.
44.
In reply, the Ministry confirmed that the only legal recourse against the resolution to deny recognition in this case is the administrative procedure for disputes, in accordance with section 297 of the Labour Code (note dated 15 February 1985).
According to the complainants, the initiation of this procedure requires access to the text of the formal resolution which they have unsuccessfully requested.
45.
At the meeting held with Mr. Milcíades Giménez Díaz, who claimed to be the Secretary-General of SINATRAC, he referred to various aspects of the assembly of 11 March 1984.
First of all, the resignation presented in February by Mr. Gregorio Ojeda, who was a member of the executive committee elected in 1982, was accepted.
During the same assembly Mr. Pedro Zárate also presented his resignation.
During the discussions a written note of accusation against Mr. Gímenez was presented by the complainants requesting his resignation as Secretary-General.
It was suggested that he should read this note publicly but Mr. Gímenez refused to do so since the matter was not included on the agenda of the assembly.
The text of the agenda was shown to us by Mr. Gímenez;  it reads as follows:  "(1) Report and appraisal of the financial situation by the Secretary of Finances for the 1983 exercise. (2) Election of a Deputy Secretary of Records and Relations, a Deputy Secretary of Finance and a Secretary responsible for the organisation of activities. (3) Election of four substitute members."
Those who were insistent that the note should should be read included in particular Mr. Carlos Castillo, former Secretary-General, who had ceased to be a member of the trade union following his failure to pay trade union dues.
46.
As a result of the rising tempers of the persons present and the resulting confusion, Mr. Gímenez Díaz decided to withdraw from the assembly, accompanied by the Clerk and the two inspectors of the Ministry of Justice and Labour who had been invited by the executive committee.
The two latter officials informed the members that the assembly was suspended and that any decision taken by those present would have no legal effect.
Approximately 50 persons remained in the meeting out of a total of 61 participants.
The membership of the trade union at that time was 120.
In the meeting which continued it was not possible to adopt any decision respecting the election of a new Secretary-General and the reorganisaion of the executive committee since these items were not included on the agenda.
47.
Furthermore, Mr. Gímenez continued, it cannot be said that seven members out of a total of 11 of the executive committee elected in 1982 had remained as members of one of the two factions.
In fact two of the seven had resigned or abandoned their functions before the assembly of 11 March 1984 (Florencio Benítez, Secretary of Records and Relations, Eustaquio Portillo, Deputy Secretary of Finances).
The following therefore remained as members of the dissident group:  Lino Gómez, Gregorio Ojeda, Justo Pastor Sosa, Pedro Zárate and Martín Chamorro.
In Mr. Gímenez Díaz's group there remained, in addition to the latter, Sixto Fleitas, Antonio de la Cruz Benítez and Efigenio Fernández.
According to Mr. Gímenez, this proves that the dissidents did not have the support of the majority of the members of the original executive committee to convene a subsequent extraordinary assembly of the trade union.
48.
After the division occurred, Mr. Gímenez Díaz adds, that the premises of SINATRAC - an office in the headquarters of the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers - continued to be occupied by his group, which continued its trade union activities.
With a view to normalising the situation, it was decided to hold an assembly for the reorganisation of the trade union, which took place in Villa Hayes on 13 October 1984.
This city was selected since most of the members were employed there in the construction of the future ACEPAR plant.
More than 200 members participated in the assembly.
Circulars announcing the convocation were pinned up and distributed at the worksite.
The assembly elected a new executive committee of which Mr. Gímenez Díaz is the Secretary-General.
This committee was recognised by the Ministry of Justice and Labour.
49.
In our conversations with the competent authorities of this Ministry we received documentation and we were given the following information on the events which had occurred. It was stressed that the situation was a confused one concerning an internal dispute between the members of the executive committee of SINATRAC.
50.
On 11 March 1984 an extraordinary general assembly convened by the executive committee was held in the headquarters of the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers to examine the financial balance sheet presented by the Financial Secretary and to fill certain vacant posts on the committee.
After the approval of the balance sheet and as the chairman was introducing the second item on the agenda (appointment to vacant posts), a group headed by Carlos Castillo, Gregorio Ojeda and Pedro Zárate provoked the incidents in question, disregarding the warnings made by the labour inspectors to keep to the items on the agenda.
As the situation deteriorated, the inspectors withdrew from the premises, as did the president and secretary of the meeting, and the delegates of the CPT.
51.
Later the group directed by Carlos Castillo, Gregorio Ojeda and Pedro Zárate held a so-called extraordinary general assembly, set up a so-called executive committee and requested its recognition before the Labour Directorate.
This request was denied by Resolution No. 1502 dated 6 September 1984.
Since that date the trade union had been without leadership.
In these circumstances and with a view to the legal reorganisation of the trade union, a SINATRAC reorganisation committee was set up whose members were Milcíades Gímenez Díaz, Sixto Fleitas and Antonio de la Cruz Benítez, who had been members of the executive committee elected in January 1982.
This reorganisation committee, with the collaboration of the CPT, called a general assembly on 1 October 1984 for the reorganisation of the trade union, to be held on 13 October in Villa Hayes.
The convocation was not published in a newspaper for lack of money but notification was given in circulars, as verified by the labour inspectors.
The assembly was monitored by officials of the Labour Directorate and proceeded to elect a new executive committee of the trade union which was duly recognised by the authorities by Resolution No. 1717 dated 17 October 1985.
52.
As regards certain specific points, the labour authorities provided the following information.
The executive committee elected in the assembly of 11 March 1984 was not recognised because it had not complied with the provisions of Article 6 of the SINATRAC by-laws, which read as follows:
"The convocation of an assembly of members shall be communicated to members by means of circulars distributed at the workplaces and in the work committees and by publication in a newspaper of the capital at least eight days beforehand."
As regards the request for recognition of the executive committee resulting from the assembly of 21 October 1984 and the annulment of the recognition granted to the committee elected at the assembly of 13 October 1984, the Labour Directorate considers that this is an appeal for annulment requiring the Directorate to annul a decision which it had previously taken.
This kind of appeal is not applicable in such cases and is not included in any regulation for these purposes.
What is applicable under the established procedure (Decree No. 3696 dated 24 March 1964) is a direct appeal to the courts through the administrative procedure for disputes.
The Ministry of Justice and Labour communicated the legal decisions to which the complainants refer in the same way as resolutions against which appeals can be lodged through the administrative procedure for disputes.
Furthermore, mention is made in one of these decisions of Resolution No. 1717 which recognises the executive committee elected on 13 October 1984, which means that the complainants had been informed of the existence of this resolution and could have lodged an appeal through the adminstrative procedure for disputes.
53.
Finally, the Labour Directorate stressed that it is not certain that Messrs. Ojeda, Zárate, Castillo and other complainants actually work in the building industry.
On the other hand, it was clear from the work roster of the Benito Roggio and Sons SA. , construction firm that Mr. Milciades Gimenez Diaz is an employee of this firm.
Case No. 1301
54.
This complaint is contained in communications from the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) dated 6 and 25 September 1984.
The Government representative of Paraguay to the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference personally delivered certain information concering this complaint.
55.
In its communication dated 6 September 1985, the ICFTU alleges that on 18 August 1984, when steps were being taken for the establishment of a trade union, Messrs. Melanio Morel, Gregorio Ojeda, Pedro Zárate, Carlos Castillo and Nicasio Guzmán, leaders of the National Union of Building Workers (SINATRAC) were arrested in the ACEPAR iron and steel works by military officials.
In its communication of 25 September 1984, the ICFTU adds that these leaders were released on lO September, but that they have been dismissed on the express instructions of the Ministry of Justice and Labour.
56.
The documentation presented by the Government representative of Paraguay to the 71st Session of the International Labour Conference indicates that the persons mentioned by the ICFTU do not appear as members of SINATRAC, nor are they employed in any undertaking.
57.
Information on this case was obtained from Messrs. Lino Gómez, Gregorio Ojeda and Melanio Morel, as well as from the competent authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour.
It should be noted that the events occurred in August 1984, that is, after the executive committee of SINATRAC had split into two factions during the assembly of ll March of that year.
58.
According to Messrs. Gómez, Ojeda and Morel, who were members of the executive committee elected at that assembly, as well as Pedro Zárate, their objective was to set up a works committee in the undertaking which was building the ACEPAR plant.
A similar committee had previously been set up in the Yaciretá worksite.
On 18 August 1984, they convened a assembly of workers in this plant which was to be held at the nearest bus stop to the plant.
On that day, as they were preparing for the meeting, they were warned by the police that the meeting should not be held.
Shortly afterwards they were arrested by members of the army and remained under arrest until 4 September 1984 when they were released without any proceedings having been brought against them.
They were not informed of the reason for their detention but were warned not to proceed further with their activities.
59.
According to these interlocutors, they had organised works committees on previous occasions without having requested permission from the authorities.
On such occasions the meetings had been held in the premises of the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers, which was impossible on this occasion because of the large number of interested workers (approximately, 2,700).
They had believed that the ACEPAR plant, an undertaking which is directed by military staff, was not situated in a military zone and there was no information or notice indicating that it was.
Finally, they stated that they were not dismissed as a result of these events because they were not recruited individually under separate contracts, but collectively as a team on the basis of labour-leasing contracts.
What is certain that since their arrest they have not been able to obtain contracts with building undertakings as before but only with individual employers.
60.
According to the authorities of the Ministry of Justice and Labour, the ACEPAR undertaking is a para-public undertaking, located in a military zone and is directed by military staff.
The assembly to which the complaints refer was not authorised and for this reason could not be held.
As a result they were arrested by the military forces, without charges being brought against them, and subsequently released.
The Ministry never intervened with a view to obtaining their possible dismissal.
In point of fact the matter is a problem which should be examined in the context of the rivalry existing between the two trade union factions to which reference has been made, and the action carried out by the complainants was designed to obtain new supporters because of the forthcoming trade union elections.
Case No. 1341
61.
This complaint is contained in a communication from the ICFTU dated 24 June 1985.
The Government had not replied.
62.
The ICFTU alleges that Paraguayan citizens who were offered the possibility of returning to their country after a long period of forced exile are being submitted to a strict control by the authorities.
The complainant refers in particular to the case of Mr. Ricardo Esperanza Leiva, former trade union leader who returned to the country after many years of exile and who has since been the victim of thorough and constant police supervision in Asunción, including supervision by motorised police whenever he travels to any part of the city.
63.
The ICFTU states that this type of government measure severely limits the individual and trade union freedoms of Mr. Esperanza Leiva and even prevents him from seeking work, which is an indispensable condition to be able to live and to remain the the country.
64.
Finally, the ICFTU requests that steps be taken with a view to the definitive lifting by the Government of the restrictions affecting exiled citizens who have returned to the country, in particular, Mr. Esperanza Leiva.
65.
During the mission we were able to gather the following information on this case.
66.
Mr. Ricardo Esperanza Leiva stated that under the pretext of guaranteeing his personal safety he was the victim of constant supervision by the police who followed him on motor cycles whenever he moved from one place to another.
We were able to confirm the presence of a police motor cycle opposite the place where we met with Mr. Leiva.
According to the latter, the fact that he is followed everywhere by the police, who also request documentation from those persons with whom he has contact, makes it impossible for him to find work, earn his living and therefore makes it difficult for him to remain in the country.
Mr. Leiva said that he had been in exile since l959, that he was sentenced to four years of prison in 1961 when he clandestinely entered the country and joined the Epifanismo political movement.
He also pointed out that he was a member of the Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile, acting as its Deputy Secretary-General, and that he had been a leader of the Frigorífico Liebig trade union.
67.
The authorities of the Ministry stated that the police surveillance of Mr. Leiva was designed to guarantee his safety and protect his life, since he had been a member of the Epifanismo movement, which is a specific, dissident sector of the Colorado Party headed in 1954 by Epifanio Méndez Fleitas, Chief of Police responsible for a number of atrocities.
The authorities of the Ministry also pointed out that Mr. Leiva could present his problem to the Ministry of Labour and that other trade unionists in exile had returned to the country and were now working.
68.
During the meeting with the Minister of Justice and Labour I expressed the concern felt at the international level and, in particular, within the ILO at the situation of Mr. Leiva and requested that this situation should be made known to the Minister of the Interior.
Geraldo von Potobsky.
PERSONS INTERVIEWED
Ministry of Justice and Labour
Mr. Eugenio Jacquet, Minister of Justice and Labour
Mr. Carlos Doldán del Puerto, Director of Labour
Mr. Luciano Mendoza, Chief of the Department of International Standards
Mr. Arsenio Riveros Delgado, Deputy Adviser of the Legal Department of the Labour Directorate
Mrs. Ilse de Riveros, Regional Director of the Department of Itapúa, Social Information Branch
Paraguayan Confederation of Workers in Exile (CPTE)
Mr. Julio Etcheverry Espinola, Secretary-General of the CPTE
Mr. Basilio González Hermosilla, Secretary-General of the CPTE
Mr. Pablo E. Aquino, Secretary of International Relations, CPTE
Mr. Eulogio Alvarenga, Secretary responsible for Peasant Affairs, CPTE
Mr. Julián Garay, Secretary responsible for Organisation, CPTE
Mr. Carlos L. Garay González, Secretary responsible for Youth Affairs, CPTE
Mr. Ricardo Esperanza Leiva, Deputy Secretary-General, CPTE (interviewed in Asunción)
Mr. Marcelino Notario Bernal, Secretary responsible for Organisation, CPTE (interviewed in Asunción)
Paraguayan Confederation of Workers (CPT)
Mr. Sotero Ledesma, Secretary-General of the CPT
Mr. Porfirio Giménez, Secretary of Records and Correspondence, CPT
Mr. Salvador Vera, Secretary of International Affairs, CPT
Mr. Enrique Benítez, Secretary of Culture and Trade Union Education, CPT
Various other leaders of the CPT.
Federation of Production, Industry and Commerce (FEPRINCO) and the Paraguayan Industrial Union
Mr. Alirio W. Ugarte Díaz, Presdent of FEPRINCO and other members of the executive committee
Mr. Gustavo Díaz de Vivar, Representative of the Paraguayan Industrial Union
National Union of Building Workers (SINATRAC)
Mr. Milcíades Giménez Diaz, Secretary-General of SINATRAC (executive committee recognised by the Ministry of Justice and Labour)
Mr. Lino Gómez, Secretary-General of SINATRAC
Mr. Gregorio Ojeda, Assistant Secretary-General of SINATRAC
Mr. Melanio Morel, Financial Secretary of SINATRAC
Federation of Bank Employees (FETRABAN)
Mr. Víctor Báez Mosquera, Secretary-General of FETRABAN
Mr. Humberto Ayala, Secretary of Organisation of FETRABAN
Mr. Carlos Veron, Secretary of Relations of FETRABAN
Mr. Víctor Manuel Rodríguez, Press Secretary of the Trade Union of the Banco de Brasil and Adviser to the Executive Committee of FETRABAN Inter-Trade Union Movement of Workers (MIT-Paraguay)
Mr. José Martínez, Organisation and Action Committee of the Inter-Trade Union Movement of Workers (MIT) Paraguay)
Mr. Gustavo Benítez, Legal Adviser of MIT and the National Co-ordinating Committee of Workers
Others
Mr. Hugo Roberto Cabrera Alemán, Under-Manager of the Banco de Brasil
Mr. Panulfo Jara Casco, President of Línea de Autobuses 21
Case No. 1219
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURE AND ALLIED WORKERS' UNION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA
551.
The Committee examined this case in February 1984 and again in May 1984, when it submitted interim reports to the Governing Body [see 233rd Report, paras. 628-658, approved by the Governing Body at its 225th Session (February-March 1984);  and 234th Report, paras. 585-611, approved by the Governing Body at its 226th Session (May-June 1984)].
Subsequently, the Government sent further information in a communication dated 15 May 1985.
552.
Liberia has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
553.
When the Committee examined this case at its May 1984 Session, it made the following recommendations:
(a)
as regards the suspension of the National Agriculture and Allied Workers' Union of Liberia, the Committee recalls the importance it attaches to the principle that workers' organisations must not be subject to suspension by administrative decision.
It again urges the Government to lift without delay the suspension order affecting the union since 15 November 1982 and to keep it informed of any decision taken in this respect;
(b)
as regards the labour dispute with the Firestone Plantations Company, the suspension of the union and the dismissal of 1,200 union members employed by the company, the Committee requests the Government to indicate whether the dispute has been settled and, if so, whether an agreement has been signed between the union and the employer.
It also requests the Government to send its observations and detailed information on the alleged dismissal of NAAWUL members employed by the Firestone Plantations Company;
(c)
as regards the general ban on strikes introduced by Decree No. 12 of 30 June 1980, which abolished the right to strike and stipulated that labour disputes must be arbitrated solely by the Ministry of Labour and Youth and Sports, the Committee urges the Government to lift the ban which has been in effect for nearly four years, and which constitutes in itself a serious violation of trade union rights.
It again draws the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to this aspect of the case;
(d)
finally, as regards the union funds originating from the World Confederation of Labour and, specifically, the charge of embezzlement against the union's General Secretary, the Committee considers that, in order to reach a decision in full possession of the facts, it needs to examine the findings of the audit of the union's accounts and requests the Government to send it a copy of the report.
B.
The Government's reply
554.
In its communication of 15 May 1985, the Government states that the principle that workers' organisations must not be suspended by administrative decision is being observed in law and in practice, and refers the Committee to section 4103 of the Labour Practices Law.
It further states that the suspension of NAAWUL was requested by its members who alleged that the union's funds were being embezzled and who wished the union's accounts to be audited;  that the suspension was a prerequisite for the audit; and that it was lifted on 3 October 1984 after completion of the audit.
555.
With regard to the labour dispute between NAAWUL and the Firestone Plantations Company and the dismissal of 1,200 union members, the Government refers to its awareness of the deadlock in negotiations between the company and NAAWUL which was resolved by the Firestone Employees' Council before concluding a collective agreement now in force and which will expire in November 1985.
It denies awareness of any mass dismissal of Firestone employees for being members of NAAWUL, and points out that section 4600(2) of the Labour Practices Law prohibits discrimination against employees because of membership of a labour organisation.
556.
On the subject of the general ban on strikes introduced by Decree No. 12 of 30 June 1980, the Government states that the measure was passed to temporarily prevent workers from going on strike following a variety of strikes (involving, inter alia, the destruction of property) which took place in the aftermath of the Popular Revolution of April 1980.
It goes on to state that, as emphasised in its previous response, the right to strike is available under section 4503 of the Labour Practices Law, but that the country is currently passing through a transitory period so that the measure is necessary to maintain law and order while workers' education is being introduced by the ILO.
The temporary ban on strikes will be lifted as soon as the workers' education being introduced starts to bear fruit.
557.
Lastly, the Government denies awareness of any pending case against any member of NAAWUL for the violation of section 4111 of the Labour Practices Law or embezzlement of the union's funds, and states that all efforts will be made to make a copy of the audit available to the Committee in response to its request.
C.
The conclusions of the Committee
558.
The Committee notes with interest the Government's statement that the principle that workers' organisations must not be suspended by administrative decision is being observed in law and in practice, and also that the suspension of NAAWUL was lifted on 3 October 1984.
It observes that the suspension of NAAWUL none the less lasted for a period of nearly one year and 11 months, and that the courts do not appear to have been involved in this regard.
While the lifting of the suspension leads the Committee to the view that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination, it takes the opportunity to draw attention to the importance it attaches to the principle established in Article 4 of Convention No. 87 that workers' and employers' organisations shall not be liable to be dissolved or suspended by administrative authority.
559.
With regard to the dispute at the Firestone Plantations Company, the Committee regrets that the Government did not supply detailed information relating to the allegation concerning the dismissal of 1,200 union members, but notes the Government's denial of any awareness of a mass dismissal of NAAWUL members as well as the assurance contained in its statement that discrimination against employees because of membership of a labour organisation is prohibited.
560.
The Committee also takes note of the Government's indication that the dispute has been resolved as a result of an agreement concluded with the Firestone Company's Employees' Council which is at present in force and which expires in November 1985.
In this regard, it notes that there is no reference to the part, if any, played by NAAWUL in any negotiations leading to the agreement, nor is there an indication as to when the agreement was concluded or to the date of its commencement.
In the circumstances, the Committee requests the Government to supply it with information on these matters.
561.
On the subject of the general ban on strikes introduced by decree in June 1980, the Committee reiterates its view that this in itself constitutes a serious violation of trade union rights, and takes note of the observations made on this subject by the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations in 1984 and again in 1985, and of the discussions which took place on this subject in the Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations at the 70th and 71st Sessions of the International Labour Conference.
While noting the statement of the Government's representative on the latter occasion that the decree was to be repealed with the introduction of the new Labour Code, the Committee draws attention to the principle that a general prohibition of strikes can only be justified in the event of an acute national emergency and for a limited period of time [204th Report, Case No. 952 (Spain), para. 161, Case No. 976 (Greece), para. 202; 214th Report, Case No. 1021 (Greece), para. 123;  234th Report, Case No. 1201 (Morocco), para. 550].
It shares the hope expressed by the Conference Committee in 1985 that the Government will be led in the near future to adopt the Labour Code and other necessary measures so as to take due account of the divergencies noted by the Committee of Experts between the provision containing the ban on strikes and the Government's obligations in terms of Convention No. 87, especially as regards the rights of trade unions to defend the interests of their members and to organise their activities.
562.
The Committee notes the Government's statement that it is unaware of any pending charge against any member of NAAWUL for violation of section 4111 of the Labour Practices Law or embezzlement of union funds.
It requests the Government to supply it with all relevant information, including the records of any judicial determinations, relating to the outcome of the proceedings referred to in earlier reports on this case involving a criminal charge of embezzlement which had been brought against the General Secretary of NAAWUL.
It regrets that the Government has not so far made a copy of the audit of the union's accounts available, in response to the Committee's request and a reminder sent in July 1985, and in the circumstances renews its request in order that it may reach a decision in full possession of the facts concerning the allegation relating to union funds originating from the World Confederation of Labour.
The Committee's recommendations
563.
The Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this interim report and, in particular, the following recommendations:
(a)
The Committee notes with interest the Government's statement that the principle that workers' organisations must not be suspended by administrative decision is being observed in law and in practice, and that the suspension of NAAWUL was lifted in October 1984.
In the circumstances, it considers that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
(b)
The Committee notes, however, that the suspension was in effect for nearly one year and 11 months, and that the courts do not appear to have been involved in this regard;
it accordingly draws attention to the importance it attaches to the principle established in Article 4 of Convention No. 87, namely that workers' and employers' organisations shall not be liable to be suspended or dissolved by administrative authority.
(c)
The Committee regrets that the Government did not supply detailed information regarding the allegation concerning the dismissal of 1,200 union members at the Firestone Plantations Company.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to supply it with information concerning the part, if any, played by NAAWUL in the negotiations leading to the conclusion of a collective agreement with the Firestone Company's Employees' Council and as to the dates on which the agreement was concluded and entered into force.
(e)
With regard to the general ban on strikes introduced by decree in June 1980, the Committee reiterates its view that this constitutes a serious violation of trade union rights, and draws attention to the principle that such a prohibition can only be justified in the event of an acute national emergency and for a limited period of time;
it shares the hope of the Conference Committee on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations in 1985 that the Government will in the near future adopt the Labour Code and other necessary measures which will enable due account to be taken of the divergencies between the provision containing the ban on strikes and the Government's obligations in terms of Convention No. 87, especially as regards the rights of trade unions to defend the interests of their members and to organise their activities.
(f)
The Committee requests the Government to supply it with the audit of the union's accounts and all relevant information (including the record of any judicial determinations) relating to the outcome of proceedings referred to in earlier reports on this case involving a criminal charge of embezzlement which had been brought against the General Secretary of NAAWUL, so that it may reach a decision in full possession of the facts concerning the allegation of misuse of union funds originating from the World Confederation of Labour.
Case No. 1250
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT TRADE UNIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM
564.
The National Federation of Independent Trade Unions (UNSI) submitted a complaint of infringement of trade union rights in Belgium in a communication dated 18 June 1983.
The complainant organisation sent additional information in a communication dated 13 December 1983.
In addition, it sent a telegram to the Chairman of the Governing Body of the ILO during the 70th Session of the International Labour Conference on 19 June 1984.
Finally, the complainant presented further allegations in a communication dated 8 November 1984.
565.
The Government sent very detailed information in letters dated 2 and 11 May 1984.
Subsequently, in communications dated October 1984 and April 1985, it requested the Committee to adjourn examination of this case on the grounds that the decisions concerning the renewal of the terms of office of the members of the National Labour Council were due to be taken later.
566.
At its November 1984 meeting, the Committee on Freedom of Association decided to adjourn examination of the case, as indicated in paragraph 6 of its 236th Report, approved by the Governing Body at its 228th Session (Geneva, November 1984).
Since no reply had been received from the Government, the Committee again adjourned examination of the case in February and in May 1985 [238th Report, paragraph 5 and 239th Report, paragraph 10].
However, given the time which had elapsed since the complaint had been lodged, the Committee pointed out to the Government in May 1985 that it would have to examine the substance of the case at its November 1985 meeting even if no detailed reply had been received from the Government.
Since then, the Government sent its observations in a communication dated 24 September 1985.
567.
Belgium has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainant's allegations
568.
The National Federation of Independent Trade Unions (UNSI), in its letter of 18 June 1983, had alleged that the Government of Belgium granted powers of monopoly to "political" trade unions and was seeking to paralyse the independent union organisations.
The latter therefore together had decided to form the National Federation of Independent Trade Unions in October 1982.
This Federation grouped the following nine unions:  (1) the Cartel of Independent Trade Unions;  (2) the United Union of Finance Personnel; (3) the Belgian General Union of Sales Representatives;  (4) the General Association of Flemish Trade Unions;  (5) the General Federation of Teachers; (6) the National Confederation of Executive Staff (CNC);  (7) the Independent General Trade Unions;  (8) the National Belgian Police Union;  (9) the Independent Union of Railwaymen.
569.
The UNSI submitted a complaint of infringement of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 against the Government of Belgium in respect of both the public and private sectors.
570.
With regard to the private sector, the complainant alleged that the Government was refusing to allow its representatives to sit on the National Labour Council, and that the trade union allowances paid in this sector constituted a means of pressurising workers to induce them to join unions close to the Government since, in many cases, the allowances amount to more than half the trade union dues.
571.
The complainant organisation had explained that trade union life in the private sector was completely dominated by the National Labour Council since its members obtained the status of most representative organisation.
They could then take part in trade union elections and joint consultations with management, pay unemployment allowances, and obtain subsidies and the right to trade union allowances for their affiliated members.
Admission to the Council - which is regulated by the Act of 29 May 1952 - was subject only to two criteria:  that the organisation be established at the national level and that it be inter-occupational. The complainant organisation believed that it was entitled to admission as it satisfied both requirements.
572.
The UNSI had stated that since the Act provided for a maximum of 24 seats on the National Labour Council and only 22 of these seats had been allocated by 25 November 1980 (as could be seen from the Royal Order of 10 November 1980), it had submitted an application to the Minister of Employment and Labour in view of the possibility of the two remaining seats being allocated by Royal Order.
This application had been rejected on the grounds that the current members' term of office was due to be renewed in December 1984.
573.
Furthermore, according to the UNSI, the Belgian authorities were not complying with the principle established by the Committee on Freedom of Association according to which, by placing one organisation at an advantage or at a disadvantage in relation to the others, a government might either directly or indirectly influence the choice of workers regarding the organisation to which they intended to belong, since they would undeniably be inclined to join the union best able to serve them, even if their natural preference would have led them to join another organisation for occupational, religious, political or other reasons.
The freedom to choose was a right expressly laid down in Convention No. 87.
574.
According to the complainant organisation, the system of trade union allowances in the private sector was really a means of pressurising the workers since in many cases these allowances represented more than half the trade union dues.
The system was thus, the UNSI maintained, contrary to the Committee's recommendations in Case No. 981, where it had drawn the Government's attention to the importance which it attached to the fact that any advantage granted by law to workers who belonged to a particular trade union must not exceed a symbolic level, so as to ensure that in no case could an advantage be of such a nature as to influence unduly the workers' choice as regards the organisation to which they intended to belong.
575.
As regards the public sector, the complainant organisation recalled that, in accordance with the Act of 19 December 1974 concerning relations between the public authorities and the unions of employees coming under these authorities, this sector was also subject to representation on the National Labour Council.
According to the complainant organisation, this Act, which had already been the subject of complaints [Cases Nos. 655 and 981] was still not being applied because of the reluctance of the political trade unions to accept the system of counting.
The Cartel of Independent Trade Unions of Belgium had itself, moreover, contested the system of counting.
576.
A Bill, No. 371, aimed at amending the Act of 19 December 1974 concerning relations between the public authorities and the unions of employees coming under these authorities, had been introduced.
It would deprive trade unions which were not members of the National Labour Council of any possibility of belonging to the three general bargaining committees, whereas formerly this exclusion applied only to the highest committee, that is to say the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole.
577.
The UNSI considered that this Bill thus demonstrated the determination of the Belgian Government to paralyse the functioning of an independent union, contrary to an opinion previously expressed by the Committee on Freedom of Association in Case No. 655 [143rd Report, paragraph 42], in which the Committee considered that a system such as that set up by the Act of 19 December 1974 might mean that sufficiently representative organisations, and even the most representative organisation, in the public sector might be excluded from the general bargaining committees on the grounds that they were not affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council, a body which was not, however, competent with respect to the public sector.
578.
The complainant organisation had also criticised the fact that, according to official statistics on the trade union allowance in the public sector, the three unions considered to be the most representative in fact represented only about 30 per cent of the staff in this sector.
Moreover, it believed that the Act of 19 December 1974 would not be applied, since the three recognised political unions would not agree to their membership being counted.
Consequently, the Act of 1 September 1980 in respect of the payment of a trade union allowance by the public services would not be applied either, which meant that the relative payments would still be made in accordance with transitional provisions.
579.
Moreover, according to the complainant organisation, Bill No. 371 - even more than the 1974 Act - would deprive organisations which are not members of the National Labour Council of their means of action.
These organisations would not have access to any of the bodies in which important decisions are taken.
Furthermore, sections 16 and 17 of the Act of 19 December 1974 established a discriminatory system to the detriment of trade unions not affiliated to an organisation represented on the National Labour Council as regards the exercise of the most elementary rights in the field of freedom of association;
for example, they could neither hold meetings on departmental premises, collect trade union dues during working hours, nor monitor examinations.
580.
In conclusion, the complainant organisation stated that no objective and clearly defined criterion was applied for the recognition of an independent trade union;  recognition depended solely on the political good will of the Government - that is to say the Minister of Employment and Labour - and the Belgian Government did not wish to accept organisations that were not politically oriented.
The complainant organisation regretted that the uniting of all the independent unions, from both the public and the private sector, in a federation - the UNSI - had not had the desired influence on developments in the trade union situation, although the independent unions had made a point of complying with the wishes of the Government which was willing to negotiate only with unions that are inter-occupational.
581.
In a subsequent communication dated 13 December 1983, the complainant organisation added that the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications decided, on 28 October 1983, to deprive the Postal Workers' Federation (POSTBOND), a trade union organisation representing the workers of this sector on the administrative council of the Post Office Social Service, of its right of representation as from 1 January 1984, replacing it by a liberal trade union which was allegedly not representative.
582.
Furthermore, in a communication dated 8 November 1984, the UNSI referred to measures to implement the Act of 19 December 1974 concerning relations between the public authorities and the unions of employees coming under these authorities which had been adopted in the Royal Order of 28 September 1984 published in the Official Gazette No. 105 (Moniteur Belge) dated 20 October 1984.
583.
According to the UNSI, it was clear from this text that:
(1)
as far as the three higher committees were concerned, only trade unions with at least one seat on the National Labour Council were entitled to participate therein.
Other organisations might sit only on the sectoral or special committees, whose importance was extremely limited since major decisions concerning staff were negotiated in the three higher committees;
(2)
as regards the membership count, it did not appear to be mandatory inasmuch as it had to be requested by the chairman of the committee - generally the Minister.
584.
Furthermore, the UNSI had observed that its section representing railwaymen was unable to defend its members effectively since, under the trade union rules of the Belgian National Railway Company, only organisations represented on the National Labour Council were empowered to do so and the Minister of Employment and Labour was not prepared to grant it a seat on the Council.
B.
The Government's reply
585.
In its communication of 2 May 1984, the Government confirmed, in respect of its refusal to allow representatives of the complainant organisation to sit on the National Labour Council, that during the first quarter of 1983, the UNSI had submitted an application to the Minister of Employment and Labour to be represented on the Council.
On 5 May 1983, the general administration of the Collective Labour Relations Department of the Ministry of Employment and Labour had informed the General Secretary of the UNSI that its application to be represented on the National Labour Council was premature since the membership of the Council could not be changed before 12 December 1984, when its members' term of office was to be renewed.
Moreover, in a letter of 26 September 1983 addressed to the Vice-President of the UNSI, the Minister of Employment and Labour had confirmed that the organisation's application to be represented on the National Labour Council would be considered when the membership of the Council was being renewed, the procedure for which was to begin in June 1984.
586.
The Government explained that section 2(2) of the Act of 29 May 1952 to establish a National Labour Council read as follows:
The members shall be appointed by the Crown.
They shall comprise representatives in equal numbers of the most representative organisations of employers and of the most representative organisations of workers ...
The members representing the most representative organisations of workers shall be selected from among candidates nominated on a double list by the inter-occupational organisations federated at the national level.
It also pointed out that section 5 of the same Act of 29 May 1952 provided that members of the National Labour Council were appointed for a period of four years and that the present members of the National Labour Council had been appointed by Royal Order of 10 November 1980, effective as from 12 December 1980.
The renewal of their term of office was due to take place on 12 December 1984.
587.
The Government confirmed that only 22 seats had been allocated out of the 24 provided for in the relevant regulations;
however, the two vacant seats could be allocated only in accordance with the principle of parity between delegates of employers' organisations and delegates of workers' organisations, as laid down in section 2(2) of the afore-mentioned Act of 29 May 1952.
Thus, according to the Government, before allowing a workers' organisation to be represented on the National Labour Council, it was indispensable not only to investigate the representativity of that organisation but also, in view of the principle of parity on the National Labour Council and of the required balance between representatives of the two sides, to carry out a fresh study of the representativity of all the organisations of employers and the workers.
The Minister of Employment and Labour had therefore rightly considered that in view of the scope of this study it should be undertaken as part of the normal procedure for the renewal of the term of office of the members of the Council.
He had therefore informed the UNSI of his intention to consider this organisation's application in June 1984.
588.
As regards the system of trade union allowances, the Government stated that the principle and conditions underlying the granting of a trade union allowance or any other advantage to unionised workers were matters, in the private sector, for consultation and collective bargaining.
There were no laws or regulations establishing principles in this respect.
One or more trade union organisations might conclude, with the employers' representatives or with one particular employer, a collective labour agreement containing a clause providing for the grant of a trade union allowance only to workers who were members of the organisations which were parties to the agreement.
This clause, which laid down an obligation on the employer, was the counterpart of an obligation for the signatory unions to maintain industrial peace at the level of the sector of activity or of the undertaking.
The role of the public authorities in this area was extremely limited, being confined to accepting to register a collective agreement with the Collective Labour Relations Department of the Ministry of Employment and Labour, and accepting to render binding by Royal Order a collective labour agreement reached by a joint body.
589.
The Government disputed the argument put forward by the complainant organisation when it referred to recommendations made by the Committee on Freedom of Association in Case No. 981.
According to the Government, Belgium law confers no special advantage on the workers of a particular union.
The Royal Orders rendering collective labour agreements binding were submitted to the courts for verification of their legal implications and might be quashed by the Council of State.
Moreover, collective labour agreements that were not rendered binding might also be challenged in the courts of law.
590.
The Government explained that Belgian jurisprudence had on several occasions upheld the legality of the system of advantages reserved for unionised workers or for the members of certain unions and that the judicial and administrative jurisdictions had specified the conditions in which such advantages could be considered legal.
These conditions might be summarised as follows:
the advantages must be in proportion to the contributions paid by the unionised workers;
it was generally considered that the amount of the allowances should in no case exceed that of the contribution paid by the worker as a member of a union (that is to say, the annual dues paid by members to their organisation).
The granting of advantages only to unionised workers could not undermine the rights acquired by the workers as a whole.
An employer could not reserve solely for unionised workers what previously belonged to the workers as a whole.
Lastly, the advantages must be the counterpart of the participation by workers belonging to the organisations which had signed the agreement, in the development of the socio-economic life of the undertaking or of the sector, and were generally granted in exchange for the expressed or tacit undertaking by the union to commit itself for a specific period to a policy of higher productivity or a policy of industrial peace.
591.
The Government therefore considered that the system of trade union allowances granted in compliance with conditions laid down by jurisprudence was not contrary to article 20 of the Belgian Constitution which established freedom of association, nor to the provisions of the Act of 24 May 1921 which guaranteed this freedom of association since it protected the right of the individual to join or not to join a particular association.
592.
The Government had recalled that the Committee on Freedom of Association had always recognised that the principle of freedom of choice did not prevent making a distinction between the most representative trade union and other trade unions or according special rights to the majority trade union, provided the distinction was made on the basis of objective criteria.
According to the Government, the trade union organisations sitting on joint committees were workers' organisations which, on the basis of objective criteria laid down by Belgian law, had been recognised as the most representative in the sector concerned.
It therefore followed that the criterion of representativity enabled the system of trade union allowances to satisfy one of the conditions on which Belgian jurisprudence had made the legality of this system depend, namely that the trade union allowance was a counterpart to the obligation to ensure growth of productivity or maintenance of industrial peace, since only organisations that were representative of the workers could achieve the objectives of productivity and industrial peace in any particular sector.
593.
In the case of the public sector, the Government, in reply to the allegation that Bill No. 371 was of such a nature as to deprive trade union organisations which were not members of the National Labour Council of any possibility of participating in the three general bargaining committees, whereas those organisations had previously been excluded only from the highest committee, i.e. the Committee for the Public Services as a whole, pointed out that Bill No. 371 had become law on 19 July 1983.
It explained that the purpose of that legislation was to adopt the Act of 19 December 1974 to the new system of organisation of the State resulting from the 1980 constitutional reform and to amend provisions in respect of which certain difficulties in their implementation had become apparent.
594.
Consequently, section 7 of the Act of 19 December 1974 laying down the criteria for representativity of trade union organisations sitting on the general bargaining committees had been modified.
The former section 7 read as follows:
Section 7
Paragraph 1.
Any trade union organisation which: (1)	operates at the national level; (2) defends the interest of all categories of public sector staff; (3) is affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council shall be deemed representative and hence entitled to sit on the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole referred to in section 3, paragraph 1, subparagraph (3).
Paragraph 2.
Any trade union organisation which: (1)	satisfies the requirements of paragraph 1; (2) has a paid-up membership representing at least 10 per cent of the total staff employed in the public services referred to in section 1, paragraph 1, subparagraphs (1) and (2), to the members of whose staff the present Act has been made applicable shall be deemed representative and hence entitled to sit on the national public services committee referred to in section 3, paragraph 1, subparagraph (1).
Paragraph 3.
Any trade union which: (1)	satisfies the requirements of paragraph 1; and (2) has a paid-up membership representing at least 10 per cent of the total staff employed in the public services referred to section 1, paragraph 1, subparagraphs (3), (4) and (5), to the members of whose staff the present Act has been made applicable shall be deemed representative and hence entitled to sit on the provincial and local public services committee referred to in section 3, paragraph 1, subparagraph (2).
The new section 7 reads as follows:
Section 7
Any trade union organisation which: (1)	operates at the national level; (2) defends the interests of all categories of public service staff; (3) is affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council shall be deemed representative and hence entitled to sit on the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole, on the national community and regional public services committees and on the provincial and local public services committees.
The Government explained that the representativity requirements had therefore been standardised, since a minimum number of paid-up members was no longer required for an organisation to be deemed representative and thus entitled to sit on the national, community and regional public services committees (formerly the "national public service committees"), and on the provincial and local public services committees. As a result, the conditions for access to these committees were now more easily met.
595.
The Government considered that there was no basis for the complainant's statement that organisations which did not belong to the National Labour Council were no longer able to sit on the three general bargaining committees, whereas previously this applied only to the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole, because the standardisation of the requirements had made access to the other two committees easier and because these requirements (operation at the national level, defence of the interest of all categories of public service staff, affiliation to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council) had already existed in the original text of the Act of 19 December 1974 for access to the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole (former section 7, paragraph 1), the national public services committee (former section 7, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1) and the provincial and local public service committees (former section 7, paragraph 3, subparagraph 3).
596.
The Government pointed out that, since no conditions for access to the general committees had been added by the new Act, the complainant's grievance must be interpreted as referring to the three above-mentioned requirements (which existed before the entry into force of the Act of 19 July 1983 and which had been maintained in force by that Act), in particular the requirement of affiliation to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council.
The Government indicated that this requirement had been previously submitted to the Committee on Freedom of Association for consideration in Case No. 655 and that the Committee then noted that the Government had pointed out "that the requirement that the union must be affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council to be entitled to sit on the general bargaining committees is intended to prevent precedence being given to organisations of public service employees which might tend to concern themselves purely with the interests of their own members, without taking into account those of employees as a whole, and the solidarity to be shown towards the latter" and "that in view of the multiplicity of unions in the Belgian public sector it was necessary for a selection to be made for the purposes of bargaining and consultation".
According to the Government, the Committee had recommended that this selection should continue to be based on an evaluation of representativity, determined objectively, which, it stated, continued to be the practice. It refuted the allegation that the legislation criticised by the complainant showed a determination on the part of the Government to paralyse the functioning of an independent trade union, thus ignoring an earlier opinion expressed by the ILO.
597.
On this point, the Government considered it had been established that the new Act was primarily of a technical nature and that the amendment of section 7 of the Act of 19 December 1974 (concerning the representativity required for entitlement to sit on the general bargaining committees) had had the effect of reducing the Act's requirements by standardising them.
The Government considered that there were no grounds for the allegation:
(1)
first, because the independent trade unions were offered the possibility of sitting on the various bargaining and consultation committees referred to in sections 3, 4 and 10 of the Act of 19 December 1974 if they met the representativity requirements set out in sections 7 and 8 of the Act.
While it was true that the complainant organisation was not currently affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council and therefore could not be deemed representative and hence entitled to sit on the general bargaining committees (section 7 of the Act of 19 December 1974), it was nevertheless possible for it, upon the forthcoming entry into force of the said Act, to establish that it had the largest paid-up membership of any of the trade union organisations not affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council.
This membership, which amounted to at least 10 per cent of the staff of the services coming under a sectoral committee or a special committee referred to in section 4 of the Act, would thus allow it to sit on these committees (section 8 of the Act);
(2)
second, because the Committee on Freedom of Association recognised in Case No. 655 (158th Report, paragraph 57) that "the fact that the trade union organisation was debarred from membership of joint committees did not necessarily imply infringement of the trade union rights of that organisation;  but for there to be no infringement two conditions must be met".
The first condition was that the question whether or not a union was sufficiently representative to sit on such bodies must be determined by objective criteria.
This aspect had already been submitted for consideration to the Committee on Freedom of Association.
The Government had pointed out at the time, as regards Case No. 655 (158th Report, paragraph 66) that objective and pre-determined criteria were applicable to trade unions by virtue of sections 7 and 8 of the Act.
The second condition was the guarantee granted to trade union organisations deemed non-representative enabling them to further and defend the interests of their members, within the meaning of Article 10 of Convention No. 87, through the activities which they could undertake in other fields and the other rights which they enjoyed.
This guarantee, which was independent of any condition of representativity, was provided by the approval arrangements set out in section 15 of the Act of 19 December 1974.
An organisation obtained such approval by sending a copy of its rules and a list of its officers to the authority which, in this respect, was the body with competence in such matters.
Approval conferred on the organisation concerned the prerogatives referred to in section 16 of the Act of 19 December 1974 (right to intervene with the authorities on behalf of employees, to assist an employee who has been required to justify his actions, to post notices on the premises of the department concerned and to receive documentation concerning staff administration).
598.
The Government also refuted the allegation that sections 16 and 17 of the Act of 19 December 1974 established a system which discriminated against trade union organisations which were not represented on the National Labour Council with respect to the exercise of the most elementary rights in the field of freedom of assocation, namely that it was impossible for the complainant to hold meetings and to collect union dues on departmental premises and to monitor examinations.
599.
The Government indicated that sections 16 and 17 read as follows:
Section 16
Approved trade union organisations may, under conditions laid down by the Crown:
(1)
intercede with the authorities on behalf of all the staff whom they represent or on behalf of any individual employee;
(2)
at his request, assist an employee summoned to justify his actions before the administrative authority;
(3)
post notices on the premises of the department concerned;
(4)
receive general documentation concerning the administration of the staff whom they represet.
Section 17
Under conditions laid down by the Crown and without prejudice to the other prerogatives conferred upon them by the present Act, representative trade union organisations may:
(1)
exercise the prerogatives of approved trade union organisations;
(2)
collect trade union dues on departmental premises during working hours;
(3)
attend the competitive examinations and tests organised for employees, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the examiners;
(4)
hold meetings on departmental premises.
600.
The Government explained that sections 16 and 17 of the Act reserved for trade union organisations prerogatives which varied according to whether the organisation concerned was approved or was deemed representative. However, this was not considered by the Government to constitute discrimination against the former type of organisation, since the Committee on Freedom of Association had recognised (158th Report, Case No. 655, para. 57) that certain advantages, especially with regard to representation, might, in certain circumstances, be accorded to trade unions by reason of the extent of their representativity.
The Government contended that the withholding of certain prerogatives from trade union organisations which were not deemed representative within the meaning of the Act of 19 December 1974 must be regarded as justified.
601.
The Government disputed the allegation that, according to official statistics of trade union allowances paid in the public sector, the three trade unions considered the most representative represented only about 30 per cent of staff in the sector.
It had pointed out that the Prime Minister himself had stated that 620,391 allowances had been paid during the reference years 1977 and 1978.
It had been established that the total number of staff members to whom the Act respecting the trade union allowance was applicable was equal, for the reference years 1977 and 1978 combined, to 1,336,610 units.
According to the Government, the number of staff to whom a trade union allowance had been paid represented 46. 42 per cent of the total.
However, this percentage (which did not correspond to that indicated by the complainant organisation), must not be regarded as representing the level of membership of the three trade union organisations deemed to be the most representative. In the first place, figures for later reference periods were not yet available and might reveal a percentage exceeding that mentioned above, owing to an amendment of the regulations concerning the trade union allowance which had had the effect of increasing the number of beneficiaries (section 4(3) of the Royal Order of 30 September 1980, introduced by Royal Order of 18 April 1982);  in the second place, many employees who satisfied the legal and regulatory requirements for entitlement to this allowance had chosen not to claim it by refraining from completing the application form which had to be addressed to the payment bodies set up by the trade union organisations concerned.
According to the Government, the percentage which the complainant organisation had given as corresponding to the trade union allowance was incorrect as it did not correspond to the figure communicated by the Prime Minister.
602.
Regarding the allegation that the three recognised political unions refused a membership count, the Government pointed out that a Royal Order to implement the Act of 19 December 1974 that would shortly come into force would have the effect of removing the transitional arrangements and instituting a comprehensive union allowance scheme.
603.
In a subsequent communication dated 11 May 1984, the Government stated in connection with that part of the complaint concerning the representation of the Postal Workers' Federation on the administration council of the Post Office Social Service that three appeals lodged by the Federation were before the Council of State of Belgium:  a request for the repeal of section 13 of Royal Order No. 182 of 30 December 1982 respecting the restructuring of the Post Office, which provided for the creation of a supervisory body;  a request for the repeal of the Ministerial Order of 30 September 1983, which provided for the establishment of a contact committee at the headquarters of each postal region and at the general and central administration of the postal service;  and a request for the repeal of the Ministerial Order of 28 October 1983 approving the association referred to in the National Federation of Independent Trade Union's complaint, which was an association engaged in social assistance activities for post office staff.
The Government considered that it had to await the outcome of these internal appeals before taking a stand on an international appeal.
604.
In its communication of 12 October 1984, the Government had requested that examination of the case be adjourned on the grounds that the decisions concerning the renewal of the terms of office of the members of the National Labour Council were due to be taken at the end of the year.
It renewed its request for adjournment on several occasions, the last being in May 1985.
605.
Since then, the Goverment sent a reply dated 24 September 1985.
It points out that the renewal of the terms of office of the members of the National Labour Council had been due in December 1984 but that some difficulties had arisen concerning distribution in the employers' group and that it was only in the month of August 1985 that the latter had been able to adopt a final stand.
Under the provisions of the Royal Decree of 18 July 1985, it increased the number of members of the National Labour Council from 22 to 24, as permitted by the Act of 19 May 1952, and, by Royal Decree of 26 July 1985, it appointed eight representatives of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises, three representatives of the Higher Council of Employers in small enterprises and self-employed persons and one representative of a farmers' occupational organisation, as delegates of employers' associations, as well as six representatives of the Belgian General Federation of Labour, five representatives of the Confederation of Christian Trade Unions and one representative of the Federation of Liberal Trade Unions of Belgium as delegates of workers' associations.
606.
The Government states that no seat has been attributed to the National Federation of Independent Trade Unions (UNSI) because, in its view, this organisation cannot at the present time be considered as one of the most representative workers' organisations since, after examination of the documents presented by the complainant organisation, the associations which comprise it have a total of less than 100,000 members, a very large proportion of whom is in the public sector.
Furthermore, it has not been shown that the number of members belonging to the private sector justifies recognition of the UNSI as a workers' organisation amongst the most representative of the private sector:
some of the details concerning the number of affiliates show only 28,430 members in the private sector and UNSI does not give any information on the 23,485 members which it assigns to one of its component organisations, the Cartel of Independent Unions of Belgium.
The request for further details in this respect has remained unanswered.
607.
The Government recalls that the 1952 legislation deliberately excluded numerical criteria concerning the representativity of workers' organisations so as not to limit the discretionary power of the Crown, as head of the executive. It therefore believes that there are no grounds for reference to section 3 of the Act of 15 December 1968 concerning collective bargaining and the committees which requires, in particular, that workers' organisations comprise approximately 50,000 members.
This criterion, according to the Government, is only an absolute minimum since the sphere of action of the National Labour Council is necessarily much greater than that of a single branch of activity.
It recalls that the number of affiliates is not the only criterion which should guide the choice of the Government and that according to the parliamentary proceedings of 1952, the legislation requires that an organisation be stable for it to be recognised as representative, so that it is in a position to ensure the respect of the agreements which it signs.
According to the Government, since the National Union of Independent Trade Unions was established only on 9 November 1982, it has not yet been able to give proof of such stability.
608.
As regards the consequences of non-participation in the National Labour Council, the Government explains that in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 5 December 1968, the signing of a collective labour agreement is reserved to the representative organisations.
These agreements have a binding and direct effect on third parties.
This in no way means that the other organisations may not conclude collective agreements but that their effect will remain limited to only the contracting parties, in accordance with the provisions of common law.
609.
In the same way, the Government adds, the advantages which are accorded under collective agreements to only unionised workers may not be considered as contrary to freedom of association since they are much less than the cost of union dues given the jurisprudential rules established, in particular, by the Council of State.
610.
The Government furthermore constantly ensures that the advantages are related to the degree of representativity, as can be seen by the reform which the Act of 22 January 1985 introduced as regards organisations which can present candidates to the Electoral College of executive staff of the works council.
Provision was made in this Act that in addition to the occupational organisations of executive staff represented in the National Labour Council, the specific organisations of executive staff with at least 10,000 members and the individual lists of executive staff supported by 10 per cent of the electors will be allowed to present candidates.
This decision shows the concern of the Government to base the criteria of representativity on real situations, excluding any type of discrimination.
611.
As regards labour relations in the public sector, the Government states that the Act of 19 December 1974 concerning relations between the public authorities and the unions of employees coming under these authorities was recently implemented by Royal Order dated 28 September 1984 in pursuance of which certain changes were made to the labour relations system in the public sector.
612.
The Government admits that the UNSI is not at the present time affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council and therefore cannot, for the time being, be considered as representative to sit on the general bargaining committees (section 7 of the Act of 19 December 1974).
It adds that the UNSI may, however, under the provisions of section 8, paragraph 1(2), and paragraph 2(2) of the 1974 Act and sections 53-65 of the Royal Decree of 28 September 1984 implementing this Act, be considered as representative to sit on the sectoral committees and specific committees.
613.
The Government points out that the UNSI has, to this end, and in pursuance of section 53 of the Royal Decree of 28 September 1984, presented its candidacy in letters dated 26 and 27 December 1984 to the competent authorities, and that the latter immediately proceeded to verify whether this organisation satisfied the conditions established by the law.
This examination, carried out along with that requested by other organisations seeking admission, is currently under way.
614.
As regards the approval arrangements contained in sections 15 and 16 of the Act of 19 December 1974 implemented by Royal Decree of 28 September 1984, the complainant organisation, like the other trade union organisations, as early as 1 December 1984, requested and obtained its approval.
It exercises the prerogatives conferred upon it by section 16 of the 1974 Act and letters of official recognition have been delivered to the trade union leaders of UNSI.
615.
As regards the trade union allowance, the Government explains that, since the Act of 19 December 1974 was recently implemented by the Royal Decree of 28 September 1984, the non-implementation of the Act of 19 December 1974 to which UNSI referred will no longer constitute an obstacle to the comprehensive application of the Act on the trade union allowance.
Such a comprehensive union allowance scheme presupposes, however, that the trade union organisations considered as representative to sit on the sectoral committees and the specific committees for which provision is made in this Act should be determined beforehand by a membership count.
The results of this count will be available only during the course of 1985.
It is for this reason that the Act of 22 January 1985 extended the transitory application of the Act respecting the trade union allowance for the reference years 1983, 1984 and 1985;
this extension does not compromise the rights of the UNSI.
If its representativity is established in 1985, it will be able to benefit from the system of the trade union allowance from 1986.
616.
As regards the representativity of the UNSI - in the public sector, in the bargaining committees established by or under the Act of 19 December 1974 - an examination of this representativity is under way:
it was decided on 13 May 1985, as regards the general bargaining committees (section 7 of the 1974 Act) that, since the complainant organisation is not affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council, it is not considered as representative to sit on the general bargaining committees and, as regards the sectoral committees (section 8 of the 1974 Act), that UNSI satisfies the requirements of representativity to present its candidacy.
617.
An examination of the criteria of representativity is thus now being carried out by an independent commission enjoying autonomous decision-making powers and composed of three judicial magistrates.
The purpose of this examination is to verify whether the UNSI has a sufficient number of paid-up members to be considered as representative to sit on the different sectoral committees to which the complainant organisation has requested admission.
The results are expected before the end of 1985;
the work involves the examination and comparison of staff lists and paid-up membership lists of the trade union organisations.
618.
In conclusion, the Belgian Government believes that it has satisfied the request of the UNSI as regards the examination the conditions of representativity and has done everything possible to ensure that this examination is carried out in conditions which respect freedom of association, by entrusting the examination to an autonomous commission composed of independent magistrates and ensuring that the criteria established do not infringe the rights of trade union organisations.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
619.
This complaint, presented by a trade union federation organised at the inter-occupational and national level and which claims to be representative, concerns the difficulties it is encountering in its efforts to gain a seat on the National Labour Council.
It also deals with the obstacles to its normal functioning and the discriminatory treatment that results from its inability to take part in the work of the Council.
620.
At the Government's request, the Committee adjourned examination of this case in November 1984 and in February and May 1985.
621.
Before giving any opinion on the issues involved in this case, certain aspects of which have already been raised in connection with a number of similar cases brought before the Committee on Freedom of Association [69th and 93rd Reports, Case No. 281 (Belgium);  92nd Report, Case No. 376 (Belgium); 130th, 143rd and 158th Reports, Case No. 655 (Belgium);  197th Report, Case No. 918 (Belgium);  208th Report, Case No. 981 (Belgium)], the Committee believes that they should be looked at in the framework of its past observations on the question of trade union representativity.
622.
In general terms, the Committee has recognised that certain advantages might be accorded to trade unions by reason of the extent of their representativity, but has taken the view that the intervention of the public authorities with regard to advantages should not be of such a nature as to influence unduly the choice of the workers in respect of the organisation to which they wish to belong.
The Committee has also taken the view that the fact that a trade union organisation is debarred from membership of joint committees does not necessarily imply an infringement of the trade union rights of that organisation, provided two conditions are met:
first, the reason for which a union is debarred from participation in a joint committee must lie in its non-representative character, determined by objective criteria;
second, in spite of such non-participation, the other rights which it enjoys and the activities it can undertake in other fields must enable it effectively "to further and defend the interests" of its members within the meaning of Article 10 of the Freedom of Association and the Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) [see 143rd Report, Case No. 655 (Belgium), para. 40.]
623.
Regarding the system resulting from the legislation in force in Belgium, the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations has for a number of years made comments on the provisions which require occupational organisations to be represented on the National Labour Council (on which only inter-occcupational organisations that are federated at the national level may sit (Act of 29 May 1952)), in order to be considered as representative, both in the private sector (Act of 5 December 1968) and in the public sector (Act of 19 December 1974), so as to be able to sit on joint committees in the private sector or take part in the work of the general bargaining committees in the public sector.
624.
Both the Committee of Experts and the Committee on Freedom of Association [see 143rd Report, Case No. 655, para. 42] have considered that such legislation might mean that even the most representative trade union in a particular branch might be excluded from taking part in collective bargaining for its sector. Both have requested the Government to re-examine the above-mentioned provisions of the Acts of 1968 and 1974 and to provide information on developments in the matter.
625.
In the present case, the complainant challenges the Government's refusal to grant it access to the National Labour Council, which results in it being unable to take part in trade union elections and in joint consultations in the private sector, to pay employment allowances and to receive subsidies.
The organisation also complains of discriminatory treatment, which derives from the fact that workers in the private sector are paid trade union allowances which the complainant claims are too high and act as a real means of inducing the workers to join unions that are close to the Government.
The complainant also refers to the impossibility of taking part in the work of the general bargaining committees in the public sector, following an amendment to the Act of 19 December 1974 introduced by an Act of 19 July 1983, whereas previously, according to the complainant, union organisations not represented on the National Labour Council were debarred only from the highest committee.
The complainant criticises the discriminatory treatment that results from the non-participation of the public sector union organisations in the National Labour Council by virtue of sections 16 and 17 of the Act of 19 December 1974 (concerning the holding of meetings, the collection of union dues on departmental premises and the monitoring of examinations), the alleged refusal of the three trade unions deemed by the public authorities to be the most representative to accept a membership count whereas they allegedly represent only 30 per cent of the staff in the public sector, and the unilateral decision of the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications which allegedly has led to the replacement of the representative Postal Workers' Federation by a liberal union which is not representative.
626.
Regarding the Government's alleged refusal to grant the complainant organisation access to the National Labour Council when two seats on the Council have been vacant since November 1980, the Committee notes the Government's statement that the organisation's request was examined when the term of office of the members of the Council was renewed in August 1985.
The Committee regrets this delay since, as the Government admits, the complainant organisation submitted its request during the first quarter of 1983.
627.
As regards the representativity criteria laid down in Belgian legislation, the Committee observes that according to section 2(2) of the Act of 29 May 1952, the Crown is empowered to appoint the members of the National Labour Council selected from among the most representative inter-occupational organisations federated at the national level.
The Committee also notes that, in connection with Case No. 918, the Belgian Government cited among the criteria of representativity other than those contained in the 1952 Act, section 3 of the Act of 5 December 1968, which reads as follows:
... The following shall be deemed to be representative workers' organisations and representative employers' organisations:
(1)
Inter-occupational organisations of workers and employers established at the national level and represented on the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council;
the workers' organisations shall furthermore have at least 50,000 members ...
[197th Report, para. 147.]
628.
In the said case, the Committee considered that the minimum 50,000 members as a qualification for entitlement to sit on the National Labour Council was not excessive, in so far as trade union organisations covered all categories of workers and not a single category.
[197th Report, Case No. 918, para. 162.]
629.
The Committee observes that the quantitative criterion of 50,000 members was not applied in the present case.
If this minimum had been applied, the Committee would have considered that it was not excessive.
630.
In the present case the Committee notes that the Government merely points out that no seat was attributed to the UNSI because its member organisations taken together have a total of less than 100,000 members, a large number of whom belong to the public sector and it adds that the legislation stipulates that an organisation, in order to be a member of the National Labour Council, must be in a position to ensure the observance of the agreements which it signs, and that in the view of the Government this is not the case as regards the UNSI which was created only on 9 November 1982 and which has not yet given proof of its stability.
631.
The Committee also observes that six seats were allocated to the Belgian General Federation of Labour, five to the Confederation of Christian Trade Unions and one to the Federation of Liberal Trade Unions of Belgium.
632.
Since the refusal to grant a seat to the UNSI on the National Labour Council makes it impossible for that union to sit on the general negotiating committees for the public service, the Committee requests the Government to indicate the objective elements which formed the basis for its refusal to allocate a seat to the UNSI in order to enable the Committee to reach a decision based on a full knowledge of the facts.
633.
With regard to the obstacles to the normal functioning of the complainant organisation as a result of its non-participation in the National Labour Council, which it claims makes it impossible for it to take part in trade union elections and joint consultation machinery, to pay unemployment allowances and obtain subsidies, the Committee notes that in its reply of 24 September 1985, the Government states that whilst the collective labour agreement under the Act of 5 December 1968 is reserved to representative organisations, that is those represented on the National Labour Council, and has a binding and direct effect with regard to third parties, this does not prevent the other organisations from concluding collective agreements though these will remain limited in effect to only their signatories.
The Government does not provide any comments concerning trade union elections, the payment of unemployment allowances and the obtaining of subsidies.
634.
On this point, the Committee recalls that although it has recognised that certain advantages, especially with regard to representation, might be accorded to trade unions by reason of the extent of their representativity, the reason for which a union is deprived of such advantages must lie in its non-representative character.
635.
As regards the alleged discrimination deriving from the fact that workers in the private sector are paid union allowances which the complainant organisation considers too high and claims are a real means of inducing workers to join certain trade unions, since in many cases the allowance is more than 50 per cent of union dues, the Committee observes that the Government maintains that the principle and conditions underlying the granting of the allowance in the private sector are matters for consultation and negotiation between the parties and therefore are considered as trade union security clauses.
The Government recognises that the public authorities are involved but states that their role is confined to agreeing to register a collective agreement and to render binding by Royal Order a collective agreement reached by a joint body.
636.
The Committee also notes the Government's explanations that the Royal Orders making collective agreements binding and thereby securing advantages for the members of certain trade unions are examined as to their legality by the courts and that the said advantages must be proportional to the contributions paid by the unionised workers - that is to say that they may not exceed the annual dues paid by members of their organisations.
The Committee also notes that in its reply of 24 September 1985, the Government states that the advantages provided by collective agreements to only the unionised workers are considerably below the cost of trade union membership given the jurisprudential rules established by the Council of State.
The Committee observes, however, that the effect of the system of extension of the trade union security clauses contained in collective agreements is to render them applicable to persons who have not participated or who have not been represented in the process of negotiation.
The securing of advantages thus takes on a different aspect in as much as it is no longer applicable solely to the parties to a collective agreement.
637.
Consequently, the Committee cannot but reiterate its earlier conclusions and draw the Government's attention to the importance which it attaches to the fact that any advantage granted by the law to workers who belong to a particular trade union must not exceed a genuinely symbolic level, so as to ensure that in no case can an advantage be of such a nature as to influence unduly the workers' choice as regards the organisation to which they intend to belong.
[See 92nd Report, Case No. 376 (Belgium), para. 39, and 208th Report, Case No. 981 (Belgium), para. 117.]
638.
The complainant claims that, in the public sector, the effect of the Act of 19 July 1983 amending the Act of 19 December 1974 concerning relations between the public authorities and trade unions of personnel employed by these authorities is to deprive trade union organisations with no seat on the National Labour Council of any possibility of participating in the three general bargaining committees whereas, previously, they were debarred only from the highest committee.
According to the complainant, this Act ignores an opinion expressed in the past by the Committee of Freedom of Association in connection with Case No. 655 in which the Committee had criticised the Belgian system on the grounds that it might mean that sufficiently representative organisations, and even the most representative organisation, in the public sector might be excluded from the general bargaining committees on the grounds that they were not affiliated to a trade union organisation represented on the National Labour Council, a body which would not, however, be competent with respect to the public sector.
639.
The Committee notes the Government's explanation that the new Act does not modify the situation obtaining under the 1974 Act since it is intended solely to facilitate access to the general committees by removing the requirement of a minimum number of members (10 per cent) for entitlement to participate in them.
The Committee observes, nevertheless, that the new Act maintains the requirement for an organisation to be affiliated to an inter-occupational organisation represented on the National Labour Council in order to be able to sit on both the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole and on the national, provincial and local public services committees (section 7, paragraph 3 of the 1974 Act, as amended on 19 July 1983).
Furthermore, the Government in its reply of 24 September 1985, points out that the UNSI may not sit on the general bargaining committees and that it may sit only on the sectoral and specific committees.
640.
The Committee therefore considers that, even though in putting forward its case the complainant may have been mistaken in indicating that, in future, organisations not represented on the National Labour Council would be debarred from the three general bargaining committees whereas in the past they were debarred only from the highest committee, the fact remains that the provisions of the Act of 19 December 1974, as amended by the Act of 19 July 1983, and which came into force by virtue of the Royal Order of 28 September 1984, do not meet all the criteria suggested by the Committee with regard to trade union representativity.
The legislation still requires an organisation to be affiliated to an inter-occupational organisation represented on the National Labour Council in order to have a seat on the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole and on the national, provincial and local public services committees (section 7, paragraph 3, of the 1974 Act as amended by the 1983 Act) and in order to be involved in the collective bargaining procedure (section 6 of the 1974 Act).
The amendment introduced by the Act of 19 July 1983 which removes the requirement of the minimum number of 10 per cent does not alter the situation on which the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations has been making observations for several years.
641.
The Committee, accordingly, invites the Government to amend its legislation since it could result in public sector organisations - which do not sit on the National Labour Council if they are not inter-occuptional or are not affiliated to an inter-occupational organisation established at the national level - being deprived of the right to bargain collectively in defence of the occupational interests of their members in the general bargaining committees, not only at the national but also provincial or local levels, even though they might be sufficiently representative.
The new Act of 19 July 1983, as the Government itself recognises, actually grants organisations not represented on the National Labour Council no new right.
It merely confirms the right to which the organisations are entitled, namely, the right to sit on specific or sectoral committees whose terms of reference are restricted to issues affecting the staff of the services for which they have been created, to the exclusion of issues that are the subject of negotiations in one of the general national, provincial or local public services committees or in the Joint Committee for the Public Services as a whole (section 4(3) and section 8 of the 1974 Act).
642.
Furthermore, the Committee notes with interest that the UNSI obtained its approval by a decision of 1 December 1984 and that it has been authorised to request a seat on the specific or sectoral bargaining committees by a decision of 13 May 1985.
As regards this last point, the Committee also notes with interest that the examination of the representativity of trade union organisations which seek to sit on the specific or sectoral bargaining committees has been entrusted to an independent commission composed of three judicial magistrates.
The Committee believes that this development is positive.
It requests the Government to state whether in fact the UNSI has been admitted to sit on the specific or sectoral committees and, if this is the case, on which committees.
It would also like to know the scope and compass of collective bargaining in the specific and sectoral committees.
643.
Regarding the alleged discrimination resulting from the non-participation of the public sector trade union organisations in the National Labour Council by virtue of sections 16 and 17 of the Act of 19 December 1974 (concerning the holding of meetings, the collection of union dues on departmental premises and monitoring of examinations), the Committee notes the Government's explanations with respect to the prerogatives that are reserved for union organisations deemed to be representative.
644.
On this point, the Committee considers, however, that it can only reiterate the conclusions it reached in its examination of the previous allegation since the system established by the 1974 Act, as amended in July 1983, might mean that sufficiently representative organisations, and even the most representative organisation, in the public sector might be denied the right to hold meetings and to collect union dues on departmental premises not because they are unrepresentative but because they are not representative within the meaning of the Act of 19 December 1974 as amended - in other words, that they are not represented on the National Labour Council.
645.
Concerning the complainant organisation's challenge to the degree of representativity of the three trade unions considered by the public authorities as being the most representative and the alleged refusal of these unions to agree to a membership count, the Committee notes the comments of the Government on these various points.
In particular, it notes that the Government challenges the figures given for the percentage paid in the form of a trade union allowance, that it points out that the complainant does not hold it responsible for the non-observance of the 1974 Act and that it accuses the trade unions concerned of refusing a membership count.
646.
The Committee considers that it is the responsibility of the Government to conduct an objective verification of the representativity of occupational organisations when this is challenged.
It recalls that occupational organisations must be able to assert their right by means of a majority vote of the workers or any other system of counting their members accepted by them and must be able to demand a new election or recount of their membership after a given period of time should they fail to demonstrate their representative character.
It would appear from the Royal Order of 28 September 1984 to implement the 1974 Act that provision does exist for a membership count, but that the verification of representativity takes place at the initiative of the chairmen of the bargaining committees (sections 53 to 56).
The supervision of the criteria of representativity, on the other hand, lies with a commission composed of judges (sections 58 to 70).
647.
As to the representation of the post and telecommunications staff, the Committee notes that appeals have been brought before the courts.
The Committee trusts that the principles concerning the verification of the representativity of occupational organisations will be respected and requests the Government to inform it of the outcome of the appeals lodged by the parties concerned.
The Committee's recommendations
648.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
Regarding the Government's alleged refusal to allow the complainant organisation to sit on the National Labour Council, the Committee regrets the Government's delay in taking up the matter.
(b)
The Committee observes that the refusal to grant a seat to the UNSI on the National Labour Council makes it impossible for that union to sit on the general negotiating committees for the public service;
the Committee requests the Government to indicate the objective factors which form the basis for the refusal to grant a seat to the UNSI on the National Labour Council so that it can reach a decision on this aspect of the case in full knowledge of the facts.
(c)
Regarding the alleged discrimination resulting from the payment to workers in the private sector of trade union allowances that are said to be a real means of inducing workers to become members of certain trade unions and which are allegedly to be extended by a Royal Order, the Committee reminds the Government of the importance that it attaches to the fact that any advantage granted by the law to workers who belong to a particular trade union must not exceed a genuinely symbolic level, so as to ensure that in no case can an advantage be of such a nature as to influence unduly the workers' choice as regards the organisation to which they intend to belong.
(d)
Concerning the alleged discrimination resulting both in the public and private sectors from the non-participation of union organisations in the National Labour Council (impossibility of participating in union elections and in joint consultations in the private sector and impossibility of taking part in general bargaining committees and of holding meetings and collecting union dues on departmental premises in the public sector), the Committee, as has already the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, requests the Government to amend its legislation.
This in effect provides that organisations that are not inter-occupational in nature or which are not affiliated to an inter-occupational organisation established at the national level do not sit on the National Labour Council.
As a result they are denied a considerable number of trade union rights, including in part the right to bargain collectively in the economic sectors in which they exercise their activities and in this particular instance in general negotiating committees in the public sector.
(e)
Concerning the complainant organisation's challenge to the degree of representativity of the three trade unions deemed by the public authorities to be the most representative and the problem that has arisen in connection with the representativity of the occupational organisations of post and telecommunications staff, the Committee recalls that it is the responsibility of the Government to conduct an objective verification of the occupational organisations concerned and that the complainant occupational organisations must be able to assert their right by means of a majority vote of the workers or of any other system of counting their members accepted by them.
In the present case, given that appeals have been brought before the courts, the Committee requests the Government to inform it of the outcome of the appeals lodged by the parties concerned.
(f)
The Committee notes with interest that the UNSI obtained its approval by a decision of 1 December 1984 and that its request for authorisation to sit on the specific or sectoral bargaining committees of the public sector is currently being examined by an independent commission composed of three judicial magistrates.
(g)
The Committee requests the Government to indicate whether in fact the UNSI has been permitted to sit on some of these committees and, if this is the case, on which committees and also to indicate the scope and compass of collective bargaining in the specific and sectoral committees in question.
Case No. 1266
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL UNION OF AFRICAN TEACHERS OF UPPER VOLTA AND THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF ORGANISATIONS OF THE TEACHING PROFESSION AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
649.
The Committee examined this case at its November 1984 meeting, at which it submitted to the Governing Body an interim report contained in paragraphs 553 to 578 of its 236th Report, which the Governing Body approved at its 228th (November 1984) Session.
Since then, the World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP) supplied additional information on this case on 28 March 1985, and the Government sent two replies in letters dated 29 and 31 May 1985.
The WCOTP supplied certain information in a communication dated 18 July 1985.
650.
Burkina Faso has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
651.
This case refers to the arrest and detention in the internment camp of Koudougou or in the gendarmerie of Ouagadougou of trade union leaders Jean Pagnimda Bila, general secretary of the National Union of African Teachers of Upper Volta (SNEAHV), Bahiéba Joachim Sib, secretary for external relations, and Ismael Ousmane Kindo, deputy secretary of the union since March 1984.
The case also involves the dismissal of a very large number of teachers (2,600 according to the complainants) in March 1984, following a 48-hour protest strike held by teachers on 20 and 21 March to obtain the release of their imprisoned trade union leaders.
Lastly, it involves the illegality, according to the complainants, of an extraordinary congress of the SNEAHV held from 28 to 30 August 1984, during which an unlawful trade union leadership was allegedly elected without the participation of the striking teachers, but with that of two leaders of the national executive of the said union who disassociated themselves from the protest movement of 20 and 21 March 1984.
652.
The Government had countered in its communications of March and June 1984 that the arrests of the union leaders had been motivated by political rather than trade union activities.
As proof, it had sent a copy of the motion of the SNEAHV of 7 August 1983 in which the union harshly criticised the action of the Government which had itself, by proclamation of 4 August 1983, suspended political parties and prohibited political activities.
The Government accused the leadership of this union of being colonialist and reactionary.
The Government had not replied to the allegation concerning the extraordinary congress of the SNEAHV held in August 1984 during which, alleged the complainants, an unlawful trade union leadership had been elected.
653.
In these circumstances, at its Session of November 1984, the Governing Body had approved the following conclusions of the Committee:
"(a)
With regard to the case as a whole, the Committee notes with grave concern that four trade union leaders have been interned by the administrative authorities for several months and that mass dismissals are said to have involved some 2,600 teachers for having taken part in a two-day strike.
(b)
The Committee urges the Government to release the trade union leaders who have been interned by the administrative authorities without having been judged or to ensure that they are brought rapidly before an independent and impartial court and, in the latter case, to communicate the text of the relevant judgements together with the reasons adduced therefor.
(c)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of the situation of these trade union leaders.
(d)
The Committee urges the Government to reinstate the teachers who were dismissed only for having participated in a strike.
(e)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of any measure taken to this effect.
(f)
The Committee requests the Government to send its observations on the allegation to which it has not yet replied, and which dates from 1 October 1984, according to which, at an extraordinary congress of the SNEAHV in August 1984, an illegal trade union executive was elected."
B.
Further allegations
654.
According to the WCOTP, in its communication of 28 March 1985, the SNEAHV trade union leaders Bila, Kindo and Sib, were still being detained without having been tried.
655.
The archives of the SNEAHV had been seized.
656.
The Government had only reintegrated 100 teachers following the strike of March 1984, out of approximately 2,600 persons who had been dismissed.
According to the WCOTP, the Government itself had permitted the dismissal of 1,466 teachers.
657.
The teachers had been made to undergo a political examination as a condition of their reinstatement, as was shown by a photocopy of the application form for readmittance in the public service of Burkina Faso, attached to the documentation, which read in part as follows:
"I.
To be filled in by the dismissed teacher
I, the undersigned, Name , Given name , Grade , Last post before dismissal , Department , Province , appeal to the mercy of the people of Burkina Faso for the revolutionary penalty which I fully deserve for having participated in the pro-imperialist and putschist  strike organised by elements manipulated by the stateless, reactionary and counter-revolutionary former executive of the SNEAHV.
Henceforth, I undertake to be guided by the political orientation speech of 2 October and to be a devoted servant of the people of Burkina Faso for the success of the great struggle which it has taken up since 4 August 1983 for freedom, dignity and social progress."
A second section, to be filled in by the Revolutionary Defence Committee (CDR), indicated that the CDR, having noted that the person concerned participated in the socio-economic activities, night meetings, individual debates and general meetings of the Revolutionary Defence Committee, gave its consent for the person concerned to join the revolutionary family of Burkina Faso.
658.
The WCOTP also enclosed with its documentation a photocopy of a letter, bearing the letterhead of the Minister of the Interior and Security, addressed to dismissed teachers who were former members of the executive of the SNEAHV (reference No. 3831/IS/CAB of 28 August 1984), in which the Director of the Minister's Office pointed out to the persons concerned that, in accordance with the statutory provisions, no person could carry on trade union activities if he was not an active member of a duly recognised trade union.
The letter added:
"Since your dismissal for holding a wildcat strike, you have lost the status of teacher and therefore that of member of the teachers' trade union.
I therefore draw your attention to everything which could happen as a result of the illegal activities which you are currently carrying on, contrary to your obligations and your new status."
659.
The WCOTP also enclosed with its complaint a photocopy of a letter addressed to the President of Burkina Faso by a group of teachers dismissed on 23 January 1985, in which the persons concerned gave the assurance that the two-day strike of 20 and 21 March 1984, of which the only purpose was to request the release of trade union leaders, was not putschist in nature, and requested the release of the union leaders detained in Koudougou and in Ouagadougou and the reinstatement of primary school teachers and those employed in training services for young agricultural workers who have been dismissed for holding a strike.
The letter stated in particular that, in view of the gravity of the situation, only the President could prevent teachers from emigrating, restore the confidence of the dismissed teachers (the letter mentioned that there had been several cases of suicide) and revive the school system in Burkina Faso.
It was signed by the group's appointed reporter, Daniel Ouedraogo.
660.
Lastly, the documentation contained a photocopy of another letter bearing the letterhead of a working group of dismissed teachers, dated 22 February 1985, also signed by the same Daniel Ouedraogo.
This group appealed to the ILO to obtain the reinstatement of the dismissed teachers.
It pointed out that on 13 February 1985 only 100 teachers had been reinstated, although the group had addressed the letter to the Chief of State to remind him of the measure of clemency which he had decided to adopt in favour of the dismissed teachers on the anniversary of his take-over on 4 August 1984.
The said measure of clemency, continued the letter, had not been implemented although the dismissed teachers had been required to fill in forms for this purpose.
The letter concluded that the teachers were destitute, that it was prohibited for private establishments to engage them, that the distribution of grain to the needy did not apply to them and that the educational system in Burkina Faso was slowly dying.
661.
The WCOTP concluded by requesting that an ILO mission visit Burkina Faso.
C.
The Government's reply
662.
In his communication of 29 May 1985, the Minister of Labour, Social Security and the Public Service, in reply to the complainant's allegations, pointed out that the case involved political demonstrations, concrete political acts committed by politicians who had conducted political campaigns in order to accede to political posts and the state apparatus.
These men used trade unionism and the recruitment of public servants or employees in a discriminatory way in order to betray the people.
They also resorted to political agitation to stir up discontent and to incite a coup by their elements in the army, continued the Minister.
663.
The revolution of 4 August 1983 gave power to the people.
Its adversaries, friends of the people in word only, had attempted to oppose the August revolution, to spread crude lies, to denigrate it and to foment counter-revolutionary conflicts and intrigues against the interest of the masses.
The August revolution had dissolved the old reactionary political parties which had divided the masses among themselves on a reactionary and regionalist political basis.
The August revolution struggled against imperialism, neo-colonialism, reactionary social forces, and reactionary classes and social groups which were partisans of imperialist oppression and exploitation.
The revolution, which was the work of the masses, had been made in spite of the handful of reactionaries who had seized political power or dreamed of seizing it, the Minister further pointed out.
664.
He added:
The former dignitaries of past regimes have been summoned by the President of the National Council, who warned them against any manoeuvres to oppose the status quo and sent them back to their village.
These former leaders, who nurtured dreams of returning to the old order, wanted to conspire with certain countries which were worried by the revolution of Burkina Faso.
They were all gathered up and interned in several locations in the country.
Some of them then called on their political friends in freedom to continue the activities of sabotage, denigration and lies.
They were the ones who thought they could cloak themselves in trade unionism and brandish ILO Convention No. 87 to cover up their activities.
665.
The Minister stated further:
The Government, which respects workers and their organisations, cannot tolerate that, in their name, certain individuals attempted to use trade unionism against the National Council of the Revolution.
Caught in the act of spreading poison and lies, these elements have been captured and interned with the old leaders.
These measures were taken against persons who lied deliberately in the hope of mobilising the people in their struggle.
Anyone who still thinks that he can mobilise elements of the people on the basis of lies, denigration and defamatory statements, will meet the same fate, affirmed the Minister who requested the ILO and the Committee on Freedom of Association to visit Burkina Faso to make an investigation.
666.
The Minister added:
It will be seen that the people, organised in its democratic institutions, had to denounce the sordid manoeuvres of the reactionary politicians in the SNEAHV leadership.
667.
The Minister pointed out, however, that measures of release had been taken with respect to certain political prisoners.
He gave an assurance that the persons involved in this case could also be released with a warning against failure to observe the existing provisions of legislation and regulations.
He affirmed that it was futile to infringe the law under the pretext of holding trade union office and that the measure affecting the persons involved was based on this argument.
668.
The Minister further specified that the Government had received more than 500 militant self-criticisms from teachers who condemned the political and subversive machinations of the leaders of the SNEAHV.
He added that in June 1984 he had thought that the ILO and the Committee on Freedom of Association had been in possession of these self-criticisms, in which teachers admitted that they have been manipulated by a leadership which had involved them without their knowledge or by pressurising them in a political struggle against the democratic popular revolution.
669.
Lastly, the Minister observed that the SNEAHV no longer existed, not that the Government had dissolved it administratively and contrary to the provisions of Convention No. 87, but because this trade union organisation had changed its name and leadership during its congress of August 1984.
At the end of this congress, it had been accepted that this trade union would henceforth be called the National Trade Union of Teachers of Burkina Faso (SNEB) and a new executive had been elected for this trade union.
670.
Still according to the Minister, the SNEB and its members condemned the acts committed by the former executive of the SNEAHV which, for political reasons, had created a link between the teachers and the trade union and certain politicians belonging to the reactionary parties.
Rank-and-file members of the former SNEAHV had denounced the elements that had seized leadership of their organisation and had changed the name of their organisation.
According to the Minister, the ILO should not accept the complaints by administrators of trade union organisations which practice trade union anarchy, denigration and defamation, hiding behind the shield of the ILO, once the masses and their democratic defence organisations had risen up to fight them.
671.
In a further communication, dated 31 May 1985, the Minister of Labour expressed surprise that complaints from a so-called working group, which was in fact composed of counter-revolutionary individuals motivated by putschist intentions, should be taken into consideration at the level of an international body such as the ILO.
He affirmed that the allegations of these individuals, who were overtly hostile to the democratic popular revolution of 4 August 1983, only aimed to politically harm the National Council of the Revolution and the prestige of the State, and he gave his assurance that it had never been the intention of the National Council of the Revolution to deliberately infringe trade union rights, as Burkina Faso had ratified Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 in 1960 and 1962, respectively.
D.
Further developments
672.
In a communication dated 18 July 1985, the WCOTP states that it has been informed that two of the arrested trade unionists, Ismael Ousmane Kindo and Bahiéba Joachim Sib, were released without being tried on 17 June 1985 after 16 months of detention.
The other trade unionists were thought to be still administratively interned.
673.
The ILO sent a telegram to the Government of Burkina Faso on 12 August 1985 requesting it to confirm the release on 17 June 1985 of the two trade unionists referred to by name and to indicate whether other measures of clemency had been adopted in favour of the two other trade union leaders who were still detained and the numerous teachers dismissed following the two-day strike of 20 and 21 March 1984.
E.
The Committee's conclusions
674.
The allegations presented by the complainants in this case arise out of the measures taken by the authorities against the National Union of African Teachers of Upper Volta, following the accession to power of the new Government of Burkina Faso on 4 August 1983.
675.
According to the allegations, four trade union leaders had been arrested in March 1984 without any charge being brought against them.
According to the Government, on the other hand, the persons concerned were guilty of pro-imperialist and putschist political manoeuvres and had used trade unionism to cover up their activities of sabotage through denigration and lies, in particular in their trade union motion of 7 August 1983.
676.
Again according to the allegations, the national teachers' union had held a 48-hour protest strike on 20 and 21 March 1984 in order to obtain the release of its trade union leaders, which had led to the dismissal of 2,600 teachers who had taken part in the strike and the subsequent reinstatement of only 100 teachers who had been forced to undergo an examination of their political views as a prerequisite for their reinstatement.
According to the Government, on the other hand, 500 teachers have admitted in self-criticisms addressed to the Government to having been manipulated by a trade union executive which had involved them without their knowledge or by pressurising them in a political struggle against the democratic popular revolution.
677.
Lastly, according to the allegations, an unlawful trade union executive had been elected in August 1984 without the participation of the striking teachers but with that of two trade union leaders who had belonged to the national executive of the said trade union and who had disassociated themselves from the protest movement.
According to the Government, on the other hand, the national teachers' union, at a congress held in August 1984, had changed its name and leadership and its members had condemned the acts committed by the former leadership who, for political reasons, had created a link between themselves and their trade union and certain reactionary politicians and parties.
678.
As regards the internment of trade union leaders without any charge having been brought against them, the Committee notes that the four trade union leaders involved were arrested in March 1984 and that, according to the complainants, two of them were released in June 1985 without having been tried, after 16 months' detention, and the other two interned trade union leaders are still in prison.
679.
In this respect, the Committee, while noting that two interned trade union leaders have been released, feels bound to express disapproval as regards the imprisonment of these two leaders detained in an administrative internment camp for 16 months, in violation of the fundamental right of trade unionists, as well as other persons, not to be arrested arbitrarily and not to be kept in detention without having been found guilty by an independent and impartial court.
680.
The Committee observes with regret that the two other trade union leaders, Jean Bila and Batiémoko Kome, are still being detained.
It urges the Government, in view of the assurance provided in its reply as regards the measures for the release of the persons involved in this case, to release the persons concerned in the very near future.
681.
As regards the measures of anti-trade union discrimination taken against the striking teachers, consisting in dismissal and in the obligation to sign declarations of loyalty in order to be reinstated, the Committee reminds the Government that by ratifying Convention No. 98, Article 1 in particular, it had undertaken to ensure that workers enjoy adequate protection against acts of anti-union discrimination in respect  of their employment.
Likewise, by ratifying Convention No. 87, Articles 3 and 10 in particular, it had undertaken to allow workers' organisations having the purpose of promoting and defending the interests of their members the right to formulate their programmes of action and to refrain from any intervention likely to restrict this right or to impede the lawful exercise thereof.
682.
In this case, not only has the Government dismissed a considerable number of trade unionists in the teaching profession for having participated in a peaceful two-day protest strike, but it has also compelled the strikers to disassociate from their trade union leaders and to sign declarations of loyalty to the Revolutionary Defence Committees.
683.
The Committee recalls the importance it attaches to the right to strike as a means to promote and defend workers' interests, and it again urges the Government to reinstate all the teachers dismissed solely for having participated in a peaceful strike and asks it to keep it informed of any measure taken in this regard.
684.
As regards the change of name and executive of the complainant national trade union in this case, the Committee observes that the congress of teachers of August 1984 undertook these changes without the participation of the dismissed striking teachers.
It observes in addition that the Government has prohibited striking teachers dismissed at the same time from carrying on any trade union activity (see letter of the Director of the Office of the Minister of the Interior of 28 August 1984).
685.
In these circumstances, the Committee considers that the Government has intervened in the internal affairs of this trade union, contrary to the obligations arising out of Article 3, paragraph 2, of Convention No. 87.
It insists that the Government restore and guarantee both to the teachers who took part in the strike who have not been reinstated and to those who were forced to sign declarations of loyalty the right to participate fully in trade union activities for the defence of their economic and social interests.
686.
The Committee requests the Government to supply it with the record of the extraordinary congress of the SNEAHV held in August 1984.
The Committee's recommendations
687.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes that two interned trade union leaders have been released.
It feels bound, however, to express disapproval as regards the imprisonment of these two trade union leaders who were detained for 16 months in an administrative internment camp in violation of the fundamental right not to be arrested arbitrarily and not to be held in detention without having been found guilty by an independent and impartial court.
(b)
The Committee again urges the Government to release the two other trade union leaders who are still administratively interned without having been tried, and asks it to communicate information on any measure taken in this respect.
(c)
The Committee notes that 100 dismissed teachers out of over 2,600, according to the complainants, have been reinstated after having been forced to sign declarations of loyalty.
The Committee reminds the Government that it is under an obligation to provide workers with adequate protection against acts of anti-union discrimination and that it must abstain from any interference in trade union affairs.
(d)
The Committee therefore again urges the Government to ensure that all of the teachers dismissed solely for having participated in a peaceful 48-hour protest strike in March 1984 are reinstated, and asks it to keep it informed of any measure taken in this respect.
(e)
The Committee urges the Government to restore and guarantee both to the teachers who took part in the strike who have not been reinstated and to those who were forced to sign declarations of loyalty the right to participate fully in trade union activities for the defence of their economic and social interests.
(f)
The Committee requests the Government to supply it with the record of the extraordinary congress of the SNEAHV held in August 1984.
(g)
The Committee draws the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations to the failure to give practical effect to Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 by Burkina Faso.
Case No. 1270
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE JAOA MONLEVADE METALWORKERS' UNION, THE UNITARIAN WORKERS' FEDERATION AND THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF LABOUR AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
688.
The Committee examined this case at its November 1984 meeting, when it submitted an interim report which was approved by the Governing Body (236th Report, paras. 603 to 622).
The Government sent certain partial information on this case on 21 December 1984, and the complainants conveyed additional information in communications of 6 December 1984 (JAOA Monlevade Union) and 8 January 1985 (World Confederation of Labour).
The Committee noted these developments in its 238th Report, paragraph 17, approved by the Governing Body in February 1985.
Since then the Office has sent the Government of Brazil two cables dated 25 April and 26 August 1985 requesting it to reply to the allegations still pending.
689.
Brazil has not ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), but has ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
690.
The complaint originated in a labour dispute and strikes which developed in 1983-84 in Belgo Mineira, an iron and steel undertaking in the State of Minas Gerais, which led to dismissals of workers and trade union leaders, requisitioning of strikers and the recruitment of workers from outside the undertaking who were underpaid and forbidden to organise.
The complaint referred in particular to the refusal of the management to renew the collective agreement and to an attempt by the management to negotiate with unorganised workers.
691.
The Government sent certain information from which it transpired that the regional labour delegation of the State of Minas Gerais and the Secretary for Labour Relations had acted as mediators in the dispute.
The Government also stated, in general terms, that the right to organise is guaranteed by Brazilian law.
On the other points mentioned above, however, the Government did not communicate concrete items of information in reply to the allegations of the complainants.
692.
At its November 1984 session the Governing Body therefore approved the following recommendations of the Committee:
(a)
With respect to the allegations concerning the dismissal of workers and trade union officials having taken part in a strike, the requisitioning of strikers, the threats of dismissal against strike pickets and the recruitment of workers at a lower wage accompanied by a ban to join a trade union in order to break a strike, the Committee drew the Government's attention to the dangers inherent in these alleged acts for freedom of association.
The Committee also considered that these acts restricted the legitimate exercise of the right to strike. It requested the Government to inform it of measures taken or envisaged towards the reinstatement of the trade unionists who had allegedly been unjustly dismissed and to ensure that Brazilian legislation guaranteeing workers the basic right to join a trade union should be respected.
(b)
Concerning the alleged refusal of the management to renew the collective agreement which had expired in October 1983 and its attempts to negotiate with workers not belonging to a trade union, the Committee recalled the importance it attached to the promotion of collective bargaining with workers' representatives and requested the Government to inform it of the reasons for the employer's refusal to negotiate and also on the developments in this labour dispute.
B.
The Government's reply
693.
In its communication of 21 December 1984 the Government stated that Brazilian law obliges the employer to negotiate with the appropriate trade union (section 616 of the Consolidation of Labour Laws) and that, despite seven meetings for conciliation purposes at the regional labour delegation of the State of Minas Gerais, no solution had been found enabling the parties to negotiate a new collective agreement;  this resulted in the institution of legal proceedings in application of the labour legislation.
The Government added that the proceedings were in progress before the labour court.
As regards the allegations of dismissal of trade  union officials, the Government stated that Brazilian law protects such officials against acts of anti-union discrimination and that, if individual complaints were made and it were shown that trade union officials had been dismissed without committing serious misdemeanours, the courts would order their reinstatement.
The Government accordingly requested the Committee on Freedom of Association to declare the case closed.
C.
Further developments
694.
In their communications of 6 December 1984 and 8 January 1985 the complainants claimed that the Government had remained passive in the face of the violations of freedom of association suffered by the workers of JAOA Monlevade since, when the union asked the Ministry of Labour for the inspection reports on the undertaking in July 1984, the Minister had allegedly replied that he did not intend to take any measures against Belgo Mineira and that, if the union wished to obtain copies of the inspection reports, it would have to take legal action.
The complainants also took exception to the fact that the Minister had allegedly not imposed any penalty on the undertaking for persistent delays in the payment of wages, although appeals had been lodged in this connection and Brazilian law empowered him to penalise undertakings in such cases.
695.
The complainants also repeated their statement to the effect that even though, according to the Government, Brazilian law guarantees the right to organise in the powerful multinational undertaking Belgo Mineira, the management summons the workers individually to force them to sign a letter prepared in advance in which they undertake not to join any trade union on pain of dismissal.
696.
The complainants also indicated that, although the undertaking is under the obligation to check off trade union contributions from pay slips, it refuses to do so.
697.
The complainants also affirmed that a superintendent of the federal police of the State of Minas Gerais was dismissed from office by the Minister of Justice for having dared to impose sanctions on undertakings.
698.
Finally, the complainants claimed that black lists containing the names of workers who had stood up for their rights and had been dismissed were being circulated among employers.
In particular, these lists bore the names of about 100 wage earners who had refused to yield to pressure by Belgo Mineira, had been dismissed and had been victimised when looking for new jobs.
699.
The complainants attached to their complaint a number of documents in support of their allegations, including a letter of complaint addressed to the regional labour delegate for Minas Gerais on 10 February 1984, in which the complainant union explained that the Belgo Mineira undertaking abolished the night shift unilaterally and without any consultation with the union, obliging workers to work two shifts and not three and so depriving them of the additional pay for night work which they had been receiving for years and which they regarded as an integral part of their wages.
700.
The documentation also contains two letters addressed to the Minister of Labour by the complainant union, the first on 11 January 1984 requesting copies of the labour inspection reports in the undertaking concerned, the second on 1 October 1984 reminding the Minister that, despite the interview he had granted the union on 11 July 1984, no measure had yet been taken to remedy the irregularities committed by the undertaking, in particular the pressure exerted on workers to induce them to leave the union and renounce the shift work supplement, which according to the union was a right acquired many years ago, and to force them to refrain from involving the union in the defence of their rights over the abolishment of their night work supplement and the consequent reduction in their paid leave and supplementary social benefits.
The letter also mentioned the refusal by the employer, in violation of section 616 of the Consolidation of Labour Laws, to negotiate with the union the renewal of the collective agreement which was to enter into force on 1 October 1984.
The letter explained that the undertaking delegated its bargaining powers to the employers' associations in the iron and steel industry for the negotiation in its name of an agreement for this branch of activity within a global bargaining framework including even small undertakings employing three workers, whereas, according to the complainant union, the undertaking had been negotiating directly with it for over 30 years.
Still according to the trade union, the employer wished to provoke a conflict between the workers of small undertakings who were negotiating advantages for the first time and those of Belgo Mineira, who already enjoyed acquired rights and genuine advantages.
It also wished to destroy the image of the trade union in the eyes of its members and to provoke clashes between workers.
The letter ended by stating that, since the Minister of Labour was aware of the unlawful acts of the undertaking, the union hoped that he would take concrete steps to remedy the irregularities and again requested the Minister to supply copies of the inspection reports.
701.
The same complaints were transmitted by the complainant union to the President of the Republic in a letter dated 11 October 1984, copy of which was sent to the ILO by the World Confederation of Labour.
D.
The Committee's conclusions
702.
In the present state of affairs the Committee deeply regrets that, despite the time which has elapsed since the latest allegations were presented by the complainants in December 1984 and the many requests for a reply to the allegations addressed to it by the ILO, no written information has been received from the Government respecting this labour dispute since December 1984.
703.
The Committee observes, however, that, according to the same written reply furnished by the Government in December 1984, no solution was found with a view to the renewal of the collective agreement in the Belgo Mineira undertaking and that judicial proceedings had been instituted before the labour courts in application of section 616 of the Consolidation of Labour Laws.
704.
The Committee notes that section 616, as amended by Act No. 4923 of 1965 and Legislative Decree No. 424 of 1969, provides that no industrial association representing economic or occupational categories and no undertaking, even if it is not represented by an industrial association, may refuse to engage in collective bargaining, that in the event of a refusal to negotiate the industrial associations and undertakings concerned must inform the regional office of the Ministry of Labour so that a summons may be served on the industrial association or undertaking refusing to bargain, and that, in the event of persistent refusal to negotiate by ignoring the summons served by the regional office of the Ministry of Labour or where the negotiations fail, the industrial association or undertaking concerned may commence a collective dispute.
Finally, where a collective agreement, collective contract or binding award is in force, it is not permissible to commence a collective dispute more than 70 days before its expiry and any new text is to take effect from the date of such expiry.
705.
In the present case the Committee has been informed neither by the Government nor by the complainants of any settlement that may have been reached in this dispute since December 1984, despite the many conciliation meetings held at the regional labour delegation.
Nevertheless, the Committee observes that Brazilian law imposes a time limit for the adoption of a decision to commence a collective dispute in the event of refusal by an employer to bargain.
In the present case, according to the Government's own statements, judicial proceedings were instituted before December 1984 before the labour courts.
The Committee trusts that this labour dispute has since been settled.
706.
The Committee therefore requests the Government to communicate any judicial decision handed down in respect of this labour dispute, and to supply detailed information on the manner in which it has developed.
The Committee's recommendations
707.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report, and in particular the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee deeply regrets that, despite the time which has elapsed since the complainants' latest allegations in December 1984 and the many requests for a reply addressed to it by the ILO, no written information has been received from the Government since December 1984.
(b)
The Committee requests the Government to communicate the text of any judicial decision handed down in respect of the labour dispute between the JAOA Monlevade Metalworkers' Union and the iron and steel undertaking Belgo Mineira, and to supply detailed information on the way in which this dispute has developed.
Case No. 1294
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF AGRICULTURAL WORKERS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
708.
The complaint of the National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG) is contained in a communication dated 13 July 1984.
709.
In the absence of observations from the Government the Committee was obliged to adjourn examination of this case on three occasions, for the last time at its May 1985 meeting, when it observed with regret that, in spite of the time which had elapsed since the complaint was presented, the information and observations awaited from the Government had not been received.
The Committee therefore appealed to the Government to transmit its observations as a matter of urgency, drawing its attention to the fact that, in conformity with the procedural rules set out in paragraph 17 of the Committee's 127th Report, approved by the Governing Body, it might present a report at its next meeting on the substance of this case even if the Government's observations had not been received by that date.
[See 239th Report, para. 15, approved by the Governing Body at its 230th Session (May-June 1985).]
The Office has since sent the Government of Brazil a cable, dated 27 August 1985, to remind it of this urgent appeal.
710.
Since it has still not received the Government's information and observations on this case, the Committee regrets that the Government has not yet sent them, and in view of the time which has elapsed since the complaint was presented, it feels obliged to examine the case without taking these observations into account.
711.
Brazil has not ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), but has ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainant's allegations
712.
The National Confederation of Agricultural Workers (CONTAG) has submitted a complaint of violation of freedom of association in Brazil on behalf of the Federation of Agricultural Workers of the State of Pernambuco (FETAPE), an organisation which is affiliated with it.
The complainants allege that the employers resorted to violence against militant workers in the sugar-cane plantation area of the State of Pernambuco and that the government authorities were ineffective in putting an end to it.
713.
The complainants explain that in 1979, following a general strike, the 240,000 rural workers of the above-mentioned sugar-cane cultivation area had secured a collective agreement on wages and labour standards and a guarantee that land would be made available to them for food crops.
From 1979 to 1983 other collective agreements were signed under the aegis of the Regional Labour Court, and the workers became aware that they could resort to the labour courts to secure observance of these agreements.
Parallel with these developments, the regional labour delegation was at the same time maintaining systematic supervision of the region, in particular keeping checks on clandestine labour and ensuring respect for the rights of the workers enshrined in the law and collective labour agreements.
714.
In the middle of 1982, however, the employers began to sabotage these agreements by recruiting unemployed labour in the regions affected by the drought which, at the time of the complaint, had been affecting the Sertao and Agreste for five years.
They got rid of the regular workers, replacing them by large numbers of underpaid, non-unionised clandestine workers from these regions.
This involved no great risk to the employers, explain the complainants, since the workers concerned returned to their administrative districts after the harvest and had no means of upholding their rights before a labour court.
The employers also hired temporary workers residing in the administrative districts of the sugar-cane area, but they contrived to employ them in districts far from their homes, so that the union in their workplace was not that of which they were members and could therefore not demand the application of collective agreements before the courts.
715.
According to the complainants, these illegal manoeuvres by the employers were facilitated by the inertia of the regional labour delegation, which relaxed its supervision after the elections towards the end of 1982.
716.
The complainants explain that, when the various press media gave wide publicity to the campaign launched by the employers to recruit 55,000 workers from the semi-arid region for the 1983-84 harvest, the Rural Workers' Union drew the attention of the Government of the State of Pernambuco to the irresponsibility of the project from the social point of view and to the benefits that it concealed for the employers, since it was obvious that if workers were recruited from the semi-arid zone, this would be to the detriment of the manpower traditionally available on the spot.
Its sole aim was to exploit the agricultural workers of the Sertao and Agreste to the maximum, and the union reminded the State Government of its duty to find viable solutions to the problems of these workers in their home areas.
717.
Although the Secretary of State for Social Welfare of the Government of the State of Pernambuco agreed, and stated his opposition to the employers' project, saying that he would authorise it only if they were first able to guarantee the full employment of the workers of the Meta area, no concrete measures were taken to prevent the manoeuvres of the planters and refinery owners.
On the contrary, administrative supervision was relaxed.
718.
In order to evade responsibility for unjustified dismissals, the employers then resorted to illegal or even brutal manoeuvres.
Not content with reducing thousands of organised workers to unemployment, the employers went to the lengths of denying them the payment of the indemnities to which they were entitled by accusing them of leaving their employment or threatening them with physical violence when they wanted to approach the labour courts or their union.
719.
The complainants also explain that, in order to secure the departure en masse of the regular workers of the Meta zone, the employers suddenly imposed a substantial increase in the workload, doubling or trebling the volume of the daily tasks provided for in the collective agreements.
Parallel with this, they brought private armies on to the sugar-cane plantations, composed of hired ruffians armed with revolvers and rifles, whose job it was to "visit" the inhabitants and "supervise" payment of the workers.
At the same time, the workers who had been granted land for their own use were no longer allowed to grow food crops on it;
their lands were laid waste and transformed into cane-brakes.
720.
At the same time the employers forbade the workers to mention the trade union and the standards for the tasks stipulated in the collective agreements and ceased deducting from the workers' wages the trade union contributions the latter had authorised.
The private militia denied trade union officials access to the plantations, and workers who attempted to complain to the labour courts or who, like the union delegates, remained in contact with their unions, were subjected to exemplary punishment by the militia:
they were beaten up or shot in the middle of the night, and threats and even murders were common.
721.
This was the climate of intimidation and terror that developed in a number of plantations, in particular at Caraúbas, in the Paudalho administrative district, for which Geraldo Guerra had held the concession since 1983.
In this connection, the complainants mention the inspection report of the regional labour delegation for this plantation, dated 7 November 1983.
722.
According to this report, out of a payroll of 140 workers, 40 were clandestine workers receiving a wage lower than that stipulated in the collective agreement.
The report noted that the workload for sugar-cane strippers had doubled (from 80 to 144 bundles), that only 20 of the 100 regular workers were receiving six days' wages and remuneration for the weekly rest day, whereas the remaining 80 were receiving less than six days' wages and no remuneration for the weekly rest as a result of the doubling of the workload.
Finally, the employer, his steward and the four men accompanying them were armed with rifles and revolvers, according to the inspection report.
723.
In addition, say the complainants, a 72-year-old agricultural worker on the same plantation, António Rodriguez dos Santos, who had been living on the estate for over 40 years and had refused to leave his home and his plot of land, was shot dead by a plantation supervisor on 10 January 1984.
The first official version of the affair spoke of a crime of passion, a later version of an accident with a firearm.
As it happened, the victim was related to the President of the Union of Rural Workers of Sao Lourenço da Mata and of the President of the Union of Rural Workers of Paudalho.
724.
On this plantation, according to the complainants, the employer no longer deducts the workers' trade union contributions, giving as a pretext the need for "free and spontaneous communication".
Some workers complained to the Limoeira Court and 18 of them told the court that they had signed their request for cancellation of the check-off under pressure.
Following the murder of Rodriguez dos Santos, about 40 workers appeared before the same court, accompanied by the employer, Geraldo Guerra, and confirmed that they had signed the request for cancellation on their own initiative, after which the workers who had complained to the Paudalho police were taken by the employer, Geraldo Guerra, to the same police station to withdraw their complaint "spontaneously".
725.
Finally, still on the same plantation, controllers of the Institute of Weights and Measures who were making a visit were forced at gunpoint to return the scales and gauges which they had seized on the suspicion that they had been tampered with.
726.
Similar manoeuvres are also reported from other plantations, including Taquarinha in the administrative district of Maraial, where José Ribeiro da Silva holds the concession and where, on 19 March 1983, an attempt was made on the life of the agricultural worker António Pedro da Silva by the employer's son-in-law, one Renato de Tal, because he had complained to his union, which is a member of the Federation of Agricultural Workers of the State of Pernambuco (FETAPE) about the invasion of his plot of land and the damage done to it.
727.
Likewise, at Jacunde, in the administrative district of Ferreiros, on the plantation conceded to José Barbosa Pereira, an attempt was made on the life of the agricultural worker José Francelino Gomes on 17 March 1983 by the employer, who fired four shots at his house while he and his family were in it.
The victim was forced to abandon the harvest of his 2-hectare plot and to change plantation, thus losing his rights to 17 days' paid leave and his severance pay.
728.
Finally, at Araújo, in the administrative district of Sao Lourenço da Mata, on the Bulhoes concession, the union delegate was threatened on 2 February 1984 by the plantation supervisor who, revolver in hand, set fire to the premises of the union delegation, totally destroying its roof, in order to prevent the workers from meeting there.
729.
The complainants consider that impunity encourages violence.
They denounce the escalation of this violence which, they say, is particularly affecting the administrative districts of Carpina, Lagoa, Itaenga and Paudalho, and the fact that the federal inspectors of the Ministry of Labour and controllers of weights and measures have been prevented at gunpoint from carrying out their tasks.
730.
They object to the unofficial power of the employers, who use force to back up their claims to flout the law and make attempts on the physical integrity and the lives of the workers, attacking the right to organise guaranteed by the Constitution and making a mockery of the federal supervisory institutions and the labour courts.
731.
The complainants add that, on 20 May 1983, they went to see the Governor of the State of Pernambuco to hand him a document denouncing the violence in the Meta area and demanding the adoption of measures to punish the guilty parties.
The Governor stated that it was necessary to ensure respect for law and order, and the FETAPE communicated to its council of representatives consisting of 152 unions the assurances it had received in this connection.
However, FETAPE and CONTAG observe with regret the inefficacy of the police investigations conducted since that time, given the bias of the investigators who interpret cases of violence as disputes between workers.
732.
In conclusion, the complainants demand that the private militias should be disarmed;  that the police investigations should be placed in the hands of delegates capable of elucidating the facts in order to establish responsibilities and punish the guilty parties;  that the Government should take a clear and unequivocal stand on respect for the rights of the rural workers of the sugar-cane growing area of Pernambuco, and in particular that the regional labour delegation should exercise systematic supervision accompanied by penalties;  that the Sugar and Alcohol Institute should supervise the observance of the law respecting plots of land (Decree No. 57. 020); and that the federal highway police and the Transport Department should supervise the observance of the highway code.
B.
The Committee's conclusions
733.
The Committee recalls that at its May-June 1985 Session the Governing Body advised the Government that, in conformity with its procedure, it might present a report on the substance of the case at its next meeting even if the Government's observations had not been received.
The Committee has still not received these observations.
734.
In these circumstances, and before examining the substance of the case, the Committee feels it necessary to recall the considerations set forth in its First Report (paragraph 31) which it has had cause to repeat on a number of occasions:
the purpose of the whole procedure is to promote respect for trade union rights in law and in fact, and the Committee is confident that, if it protects governments against unreasonable accusations, governments on their side will recognise the importance of formulating for objective examination detailed factual replies to such factual charges as may be put forward.
735.
The Committee deeply regrets that the Government has not sent a reply; because of the time which has elapsed it is obliged to examine the case without taking account of the Government's observations.
736.
The Committee observes that this case concerns acts of violence committed by sugar-cane plantation employers in the Meta region of the State of Pernambuco against workers who are only seeking the application of collective labour agreements.
In particular, it notes the prohibition by these employers of access by trade union officials to plantations, the obstacles placed in the way of trade union activities, the burning of trade union premises, the stoppage of check-offs of trade union contributions demanded in advance by the workers, threats to kill rural workers and relatives of trade union officials which are sometimes even put into practice, and finally acts committed by certain planters against representatives of the public authorities carrying out inspections in these areas.
737.
It appears from the information furnished by the complainants that the authorities exercised systematic supervision in these areas until the end of 1982, but that since then, despite the good will of the Governor of Pernambuco, certain planters have been behaving in a violent and illegal manner and are no longer subjected to penalties, since according to police investigations on the plantations such acts are allegedly due to disputes between workers.
738.
Given the extreme seriousness of the allegations, which mention reprisals against workers in the sugar-cane plantations of the Pernambuco region who are simply demanding respect for the rights obtained in collective agreements, the Committee must recall the importance it attaches to the unimpeded exercise of trade union activities.
739.
It accordingly urges the Government to take all necessary measures to guarantee a climate favourable to the exercise of trade union rights by the workers in this area and also requests it to indicate what measures have been taken to restore the trade union situation to normal and secure respect for collective agreements on these plantations.
The Committee's recommendations
740.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report, and in particular the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee deeply regrets that, despite the many requests addressed to it, the Government has sent no written information on this complaint presented by the National Confederation of Agricultural Workers of Brazil in July 1984.
(b)
It draws the Government's attention to the fact that the purpose of the whole procedure is to promote respect for trade union rights in law and in fact, and that the Committee is confident that, if it protects governments against unreasonable accusations, governments on their side will recognise the importance of formulating for objective examination detailed factual replies to such factual charges as may be put forward.
(c)
Regarding the substance of the case, given the extreme seriousness of the allegations, which mention reprisals against sugar-cane plantation workers in the Pernambuco area who are simply demanding respect for the rights obtained in collective agreements, reprisals which include forbidding trade union officials access to plantations, obstacles placed in the way of trade union activities, burning of trade union premises, the stoppage of check-offs of trade union contributions and threats to kill persons connected with trade union officials which are sometimes put into practice, the Committee must recall the importance it attaches to the unimpeded exercise of trade union activities.
(d)
The Committee accordingly urges the Government to take all necessary measures to guarantee a climate favourable to the exercise of trade union rights by the workers in this area and also requests it to indicate what measures it has taken to restore the trade union situation to normal and secure respect for collective agreements on these plantations.
Case No. 1307
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS
741.
The Committee examined this case at its February 1985 meeting when it submitted an interim report to the Governing Body [see 238th Report, paras. 312 to 329, approved by the Governing Body at its 229th Session (February-March 1985)].
Subsequently, the Government submitted its observations in a communication dated 29 April 1985.
742.
Honduras has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
743.
When the Committee examined the case at its February 1985 meeting, two questions remained unresolved.
The first of these concerned a decision taken by the judicial authority to suspend the legal personality of the National Power and Electricity Undertaking trade union for six months as a result of the strike held on 19 September 1984.
The Committee requested the Government to provide information on this matter.
744.
The second question remaining unresolved concerned the disappearance of the trade union leader, Gustavo Morales.
The Committee requested the Government to communicate the results of the investigation being carried out by the authorities as a matter of urgency.
B.
The Government's reply
745.
In its communication of 29 April 1985, the Government states that the decision taken by the judicial authority to suspend for six months the legal personality of the trade union of the National Power and Electricity Undertaking was appealed against in the Labour Appeals Court.
The Government communicates the decision of the Appeals Court, dated 26 October 1984, revoking the judicial decision of the tribunal of first instance and reducing the period of suspension of legal personality from six to two months.
Consequently, the legal personality of the above-mentioned trade union was restored on 21 November 1984.
746.
Regarding the disappearance of the trade union leader, Gustavo Morales, the Government expressed its concern at the situation and stated that it would be in touch with the relevant authority for information on the investigations into the matter.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
747.
The Committee notes the decision of the Labour Appeals Court of 26 October 1984, whereby the period of suspension of the legal personality of the trade union of the National Power and Electricity Undertaking was reduced from six to two months.
Considering that, as a result of this decision, legal personality was restored to this trade union on 21 November 1984, and that the Committee concluded at its February 1985 meeting that the declaration of illegality of the strike held on 17 September 1984 in the National Power and Electricity Undertaking did not infringe the principles of freedom of association because the undertaking in question was providing an essential service in the strict sense of the term [see 238th Report, para. 326], the Committee considers that this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
748.
With respect to the disappearance of the trade union leader, Gustavo Morales, the Committee regrets not having received information on the outcome of the investigation into this matter, and requests the Government to communicate the results of this investigation.
The Committee expresses the hope that the direct contacts mission accepted by the Government, and scheduled for January 1986, will be able to obtain information and discuss this question with the authorities.
The Committee's recommendations
749.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
the Committee considers that the allegation concerning the suspension of the legal personality of the National Power and Electricity Undertaking trade union does not call for further examination;
(b)
regarding the disappearance of the trade union leader, Gustavo Morales, the Committee regrets not having received information on the outcome of the investigations into this matter and requests the Government to communicate the results of these investigations;
(c)
the Committee expresses the hope that the direct contacts mission accepted by the Government and scheduled for January 1986, will be able to obtain information and discuss this matter with the authorities.
Case No. 1309
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS, THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF LABOUR, THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS AND OTHER TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF CHILE
750.
The Committee examined this case at its February and May 1985 meetings, when it presented interim reports to the Governing Body.
[See 238th Report, paras. 330 to 364 and 239th Report, paras. 298 to 340, approved respectively by the Governing Body at its 229th and 230th Sessions (February-March and May 1985).]
751.
Since then, the ILO has received the following communications from the complainants:  International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU): 22 May 1985, 4 and 31 July 1985, 9 and 22 August 1985, 9, 24, 25 and 27 September and 7 October 1985;  National Confederation of Workers' Trade Unions in Building, Wood, Building Materials and Related Activities:  15 May 1985; National Trade Union Co-ordinating Body (CNS):  23 May 1985;  World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession (WCOTP):  30 May, 1 and 15 October 1985;  the National Grouping of Workers:  3 June 1985;  the World Confederation of Labour (WCL):  5 June 1985 and 3 October 1985;  World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU):  8 July 1985, 8 and 21 August 1985; Works Unions Nos. 1 and 6 of El Salvador and No. 8 of Sewell y Minas of the National Copper Corporation of Chile:  31 July 1985;  Trade Unions International of Workers in the Metal Industry:  20 September 1985.
The Government, for its part, furnished its observations in communications dated 8, 15 and 29 August, 11 September and 16 October 1985.
752.
Chile has ratified neither the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) nor the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the case
753.
The complaints presented in the present case concerned a number of events that had taken place in Chile since September 1984.
The allegations referred to the intervention of the forces of order on the occasion of the Protest Day held on 4 September 1984, which is said to have resulted in the death of ten persons, many injuries and over 1,000 arrests.
The complainants referred in particular to the case of Juan Antonio Aguirre Ballesteros, who, they said, had been arrested and tortured and whose body had been subsequently found.
In this connection, the Government indicated that inquiries were being carried out by the competent criminal courts.
754.
It appeared, in the light of the allegations made, that the headquarters of certain trade union organisations (in particular the Confederation of Building Workers, the Professional Association of Teachers of Chile (AGECH) and the Chilectra trade union) had been attacked by the police and that material had been destroyed, documentation confiscated and trade unionists arrested.
The Government denied that it had given orders for the trade union premises in question to be searched.
Furthermore, on the day following the attack on the AGECH premises, Messrs. Manuel Guerrero, President of the metropolitan sector of this organisation and José Manuel Parada, an official of the Vicariat of Solidarity, were kidnapped in the street.
Their bodies were subsequently found horribly mutilated.
The Government stated that a judicial inquiry had been opened.
755.
The complainants also referred to numerous arrests and the banishment of trade unionists.
According to the Government, some of these trade unionists had not been arrested, others had been released and the reasons for the banishments were not related to trade union activities.
756.
Finally, the Committee was informed of allegations concerning infringements of the exercise of the right to hold meetings, in particular taken against a works union of the National Copper Corporation.
The Government had not replied to this allegation.
757.
At its meeting of May-June 1985, the Governing Body approved the following conclusions of the Committee:
(a)
The Committee expresses its deep concern at the difficulties facing a large number of Chilean trade union organisations and their leaders.
It considers that the Government should urgently take every measure necessary to put an end to this climate of violence;  this implies that respect for the human rights essential for the development of trade union activities be guaranteed.
(b)
As regards the deaths which took place during the National Protest Day of 4 September 1984, the Committee requests the Government to supply information on developments in the inquiry opened into this matter and on its eventual results.
(c)
As regards the death of Messrs. Aguirre, Guerrero and Parada, the Committee expresses the firm hope that the inquiries under way in these matters will lead to the rapid determination of responsibilities;
it requests the Government to continue to supply information on these inquiries.
(d)
As regards the attacks on trade union premises, the Committee deplores the fact that such acts have again been committed against trade union organisations.
It notes that the Government denies having ordered searches of these premises and requests the Government to order that inquiries be undertaken with a view to finding the perpetrators of these acts which call for severe measures by the authorities against those found responsible. It requests the Government to supply information on any inquiries which have been carried out in this regard.
(e)
As regards the arrest and banishment of trade unionists, the Committee notes the information supplied by the Government, in particular, that some persons were not arrested and that others are free.
It considers that the accumulation of these banishment measures considerably weakens trade union organisations by depriving them of their leaders and hindering their activities.
It requests the Government to supply information on the situation of the persons - listed in the Annex - concerning whom it has not yet replied and on the concrete acts which were the basis for the measures taken against them.
(f)
As regards the obstacles to the right of assembly, the Committee notes with regret that the Government has not lifted them.
It requests the Government to supply its observations on the allegations presented by the Works Union No. 6 of the National Copper Corporation.
B.
New allegations
758.
In its communication of 22 May 1985, the ICFTU refers to a letter which was sent to it on 7 May 1985 by the Confederation of Copper Workers.
The latter organisation alleges that on 27 April 1985, the homes of several of the leaders of the El Salvador trade union were searched in Diego de Amalgro when these persons were attending the National Congress of the Confederation.
759.
On 1 May 1985, a leader of the same trade union was summoned to the carabineers' headquarters of El Salvador.
On the same day, several leaders of the Andean zone trade union were arrested and held for several hours for having organised an athletics competition in the streets of Villa Minera Andina to celebrate the 1st of May, despite the fact that they had been granted authorisation to hold the event.
760.
On 3 May 1985, Mr. Raúl Montecinos, leader of the Diego de Amalgro zone and national leader of the Confederation, was allegedly arrested and then transferred to the town of Copiapó.
761.
The National Confederation of Worker' Trade Unions in Building, Wood, Building Materials and Related Activities and the National Grouping of Workers allege, in their communications of 15 May and 3 June 1985, that on 9 April 1985 the headquarters of the Building Confederation of Building Workers were illegally searched by a group of ten individuals armed with machine guns and whose faces were covered with balaclavas.
This search, which was carried out without any legal warrant, involved the use of violence.
The trade union leaders present were harassed, attacked and beaten.
Furniture was broken and property taken away, including training materials and the archives of the Confederation.
Several trade union leaders were threatened with death if they continued to exercise their activities.
762.
Shortly later the same day, the complainant organisation alleges that officials of the carabineers appeared at the headquarters of the Confederation and interrogated the trade union leaders Figueroa Jorquera, Bustamante Garci and Alvarez, who were then taken to the police station and once again interrogated.
763.
Furthermore, according to the complainant organisation, during the months of March, April and May 1985, several of its leaders were frequently followed, threatened or harassed.
Since 9 April, carabineers have been controlling the entrance to the trade union headquarters and sometimes prevent trade union leaders and members from entering.
764.
Given these circumstances, the Confederation lodged complaints and appeals for protection with the courts.
It appears from these court proceedings that the staff of the National Information Centre, the carabineers of Chile and the civil investigation department of the police did not participate in the search carried out in the premises of the Confederation and that no warrant had been issued for the arrest of trade union leaders.
765.
The complainant organisation adds that on 15 April 1985, the Minister of the Interior brought legal proceedings against four of its leaders, namely, Sergio Troncoso, José E. Rivera, José Manuel Bustamante and José Figueroa, for having violated the State Security Act, and in support of the case presented the documentation which had been seized during the paramilitary operation of 9 April carried out against the trade union headquarters.
According to the complainant organisation, the links between the authorities and the group in question are thus clearly proven.
766.
In its communication of 23 May 1985, the CNS mentions the banishment of several trade union leaders (see Annex), some of whom have been allegedly interned in a camp, at Conchi, in the north of the country.
767.
The WCOTP also mentions, in its communication of 30 May 1985, several instances of the banishment of trade unionists in the teaching profession (whose names had already been communicated to the Committee), as well as the dismissal of several members and leaders of the Professional Association of Teachers of Chile (AGECH):  Alban Mancilla, Orlando Aguilar, Luis Maldonado, Carlos Trujillo, Nelson Torres, all of whom are leaders or former leaders of the Castro Community Council, as well as Juan Ruiz, President of the Provincial Council of Puerto Montt.
768.
In its communication of 4 July 1985, the ICFTU mentions the situation of Siergo Aguirre, President of the Union of Port Workers of San Antonio, who was dismissed from the civil service by a Supreme Decree after he had been banished.
769.
The ICFTU also refers to the proceedings brought against four leaders of the Confederation of Building Workers.
During the proceedings, Manuel Bustos, President of the CNS, was called upon to give evidence and, during the interrogation by the examining magistrate, the latter ordered his arrest.
He was taken to the former public prison and locked up in a cell without any light.
For three days he was given no water or food.
He was released following the unanimous decision of the Eighth Chamber of the Court of Appeal.
Three days after the release of Manuel Bustos, the four leaders of the Confederation of Building Workers were released on bail.
770.
The National Grouping of Workers and the WCL also mention, in their communications of 3 and 5 June 1985, the arrest of Manuel Bustos.
771.
In its communication of 8 July 1985, the WFTU refers to the case of Pedro Aroya Díaz Valdez, President of the Union of Professional and Technical Pilots, who was dismissed in 1984 because of his trade union activities.
Furthermore, his organisation has been virtually destroyed.
All his attempts to be reinstated in his work have been unsuccessful.
772.
Works Unions Nos. 1 and 6 of El Salvador and No. 8 of Sewell y Minas of the National Copper Corporation as well as the ICFTU, in their communications of 31 July 1985, refer to the dismissal of Rodolfo Seguel, President of the National Copper Confederation.
This measure was endorsed by the Supreme Court following an appeal presented by Mr. Seguel.
According to the complainants, the effective inexistence of any protection of trade union leaders prevents the exercise of trade union mandates and jeopardises the autonomy of the trade union movement.
Subsequently, the WFTU and the ICFTU sent, in their communications of 21 and 22 August 1985, the text of the judgement issued by the Supreme Court in this matter.
773.
In their communications dated 8 and 9 August 1985, the WFTU and the ICFTU protest against the arrest of trade union leaders including Sergio Troncoso, President of the Confederation of Building Workers, and Juan Ponce who were subsequently banished to Melinka in the far south of the country.
774.
The ICFTU points out, in its telegram of 9 September 1985, that a demonstration which had been called by the National Grouping of Workers (CNT) on 4 September 1984 was violently repressed.
According to the ICFTU, ten persons were killed and hundreds were arrested.
Charges were brought against several leaders of the CNT and, in particular, against Rodolfo Seguel, Manuel Bustos, José Ruiz di Giorgio and Sergio Troncoso.
Subsequently, in communications dated 24 and 27 September and 3 October 1985, the ICFTU and the WCL point out that following a decision by three judges of the Supreme Court, a warrant was issued for the arrest of Rodolfo Seguel and Manuel Bustos who were imprisoned.
José Ruiz di Giorgio, President of the Union of Petroleum Workers, Maria Rozas and Mercedes Jerez, leaders of the Professional Association of Teachers of Chile (AGECH), have also been arrested.
The Trade Unions International of Workers in the Metal Industry also mentions the arrest and banishment of Claudio Gallardo, leader of the Confederation of Unions of Metallurgical Workers (CONSTRAMET).
The WCOTP, for its part, alleges in its communication of 1 October 1985 that four national leaders of the AGECH were arrested on 30 September.
They are Jorge Paveg, President;  Samuel Bello, Treasurer;  Luis Campo Leal and Carlos Poblete Avile, members of the National Executive Committee.
775.
In its communication of 25 September 1985 the ICFTU supplies further details concerning the measures taken by the authorities following the demonstration of 4 September.
According to the ICFTU, the purpose of this demonstration was to demand a reply from the Government to the "list of petitions and claims" of the workers adopted in August by the National Assembly of Leaders of the National Grouping of Workers.
The Government allegedly responded to this Day of Protest by the arrest of 87 leaders of student, trade union and political organisations, including 13 leaders of the National Grouping of Workers and 17 leaders of the Professional Association of Teachers of Chile.
Furthermore, 63 other persons were allegedly held in administrative detention for a period of 20 days.
In the same way, more than 500 persons were allegedly arrested throughout the country during demonstrations.
They were brought before the local police courts and  accused of having instigated acts of disorder on the public thoroughfare.
776.
In its communication of 7 October 1985, the ICFTU states that Manuel Bustos, Rodolfo Seguel and José Ruiz di Giorgio are still being held in detention.
Seven other trade union leaders have allegedly been arrested and taken to Santiago prison (see Annex).
The WCOTP refers in its communication of 15 October 1985 to the arrest of four AGECH leaders and states that, according to the organisers of the 4 September demonstration, acts of provocation had occurred.
According to the WCOTP, it was observed that occupants of an unmarked car fired shots which apparently caused deaths and injuries.
C.
Replies of the Government
777.
Before replying to the specific allegations made in the present case, the Government, in its communication of 11 September 1985, makes some general comments on freedom of association in Chile.
It mentions, in particular, the current provisions regarding the acquisition of legal personality, the drafting of constitutions, the right to elect leaders, dissolution through the courts, the establishment of federations and confederations, affiliation to international organisations, trade union law and employment as well as trade union autonomy.
After an examination of these various provisions, the Government concludes that in its view the national legislation embodies a strict application of the provisions of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98, although these instruments have not been ratified by Chile.
778.
As regards civil liberties, the Government points out that although it believes that the political situation of the country goes beyond the subjects which should be dealt with by the Committee of Freedom of Association, the political Constitution of the Republic was adopted in 1980 by 67 per cent of the voters and that it establishes, after a period of transition, the full respect of the democratic system.
The Government adds that because of experiences which have occurred in the country and the escalation in terrorism, which is affecting all the peoples of Latin America, the Constitution makes provision for exceptional measures to guarantee social peace in the country.
These mechanisms include the state of seige when there is a situation of "internal shock" in the country.
It was in virtue of this provision that the state of seige was proclaimed between 7 November 1984 and 17 June 1985.
However, the Government points out that with a view to protecting freedom of association, Supreme Decree No. 1216 was adopted; it establishes regulations concerning the right of assembly and does not require any authorisation, but simply an advance notice of five days, for the holding of meetings by organisations endowed with legal personality in their own premises.
779.
As regards the inquiry by a special judge into the disappearance and death of Mr. Antonio Aguirre Ballesteros, the Government points out that the legal proceedings are at the investigatory stage.
In accordance with the Code of Penal Procedure, in force since 1907, this stage of the proceedings is carried out in secret.
780.
With regard to the inquiry into the death of Messrs. José Manuel Parada, Manuel Guerrero and Santiago Natina, the Government also points out that the legal proceedings are at the investigatory stage.
The examining magistrate has indicted two former police officers on the charge of having "falsified public documents".
781.
With regard to the allegations concerning the attack against the premises of the National Democratic Development Project (PRODEN), the Government states, in its communication of 8 August 1985, that this body is a public company set up in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code governing company contracts.
The leaders of this company are former deputies of Congress and the premises which house its headquarters are not trade union premises.
The police categorically reject the allegation that they entered these premises.
782.
As regards the events which occurred in the headquarters of the Confederation of Building Workers, the Government explains in its communication of 11 September 1985 that on the day of the attack the carabineers of the Fourth Station went to the premises of the Confederation in order to investigate the offences committed.
The carabineers found 20,000 political pamphlets of a subversive nature as well as abundant propaganda and material in support of doctrines which advocate the use of violence.
The Minister of the Interior instructed the courts to carry out an inquiry and punish the guilty parties.
Following this inquiry, the examining magistrate indicted Messrs. Troncoso, Figueroa, Rivera and Bustamante on charges of having infringed section 4(f) of the State Security Act (which punishes those persons who disseminate doctrines designed to destroy the republican and democratic form of the Government) and ordered their detention.
783.
During the inquiry, the magistrate called Mr. Manuel Bustos as a witness and subsequently ordered his arrest, after interrogation, as a preventive measure in accordance with the powers conferred on him by the Code of Penal Procedure.
Following an appeal for protection by his counsel, Mr. Bustos was released on the instructions of the Appeal Court of Santiago.
Furthermore, the examining magistrate accepted a request for bail by the four leaders of the Confederation.
This measure was approved on 7 June 1985 by the Appeal Court of Santiago.
Subsequently, on 22 July 1985, the examining magistrate ordered the dismissal of the charges against the accused, thus putting an end to the proceedings, since there was insufficient evidence to bring charges against certain persons.
The matter is therefore closed.
784.
As regards the allegations concerning the arrests made after a search was carried out of the premises of the Chilectra trade union, the Government explains that a clandestine meeting had been held on these premises of political parties which had been declared illegal because of their support of terrorism.
The purpose of this meeting was to pay homage to the Socialist Party of Chile and its founder.
The participants included persons from outside the Chilectra trade union and the Chilean electricity undertaking and had no relation, even of an indirect nature, with trade union activities.
The persons arrested were released after their identity had been verified.
Messrs. Victor Hugo Gac and Eugenio Madrid Salgado were banished to Chaiten for a period of three months and Mr. Manuel Dinamarca to Ciudad de Palena for the same period.
At the present time, these persons are free to move throughout the country, since their banishment has terminated.
785.
As regards the events which occurred at Villa Minera Andina on 1 May 1985, the Government points out that each year the workers of this town celebrate the labour day holiday by organising in particular a religious ceremony, a football championship and athletic events in the streets of the town.
The Government adds that because of police regulations, prior authorisation must be requested to hold such events in the public thoroughfare.
However, the athletic event was held in the streets without such authorisation.
There was a traffic accident in which several persons were injured.
The police officer who made the report arrested the person apparently responsible for the accident, Mr. Arturo Uribe, director of one of the organising trade unions.
Other trade union leaders accompanied him to the police station.
Subsequently, the Chief of Police ordered the immediate release of all persons detained.
The Government states that another person mentioned by the complainants, Mr. Raúl Montecinos, is free and that it has no information on the alleged searches carried out in the homes of trade union leaders.
786.
Furthermore, the Government provides information on the persons mentioned as having been arrested and banished in the Committee's 239th Report (see Annex).
The Government points out that the banishments in question were ordered by virtue of the powers vested in Head of State by the Constitution during the state of siege.
On 17 June 1985 the state of siege which had been in force since 7 November 1984 was lifted.
Under the Constitution, the period of banishment may not exceed 90 days.
The events which led to these measures were participation in clandestine activities of partisan politics which had no relation to trade union activities.
At no moment, the Government points out, did it attempt to weaken the trade union movement by depriving it of its leaders or hindering its activities.
In conclusion, on this point the Government believes that the information supplied shows that there has never been an atmosphere of violence against the trade unions.
It does not share the opinion expressed in the conclusions of the Committee because the latter has generalised cases of an exceptional nature and has erroneously equated violent acts with trade union activities.
787.
As regards the allegations concerning the right of assembly, the Government reaffirms that during the state of siege, meetings of trade union organisations endowed with legal personality may take place in their own premises without prior authorisation, provided that an advance notice of five days is given to the office of the provincial governor.
On 17 June 1985 the state of siege was lifted and replaced by a state of emergency for a period of 90 days, because of the existence of internal danger to national security.
The Directorate of the zone declared to be in a state of emergency in the metropolitan region and the Province of San Antonio passed a decree establishing that meetings of organisations endowed with legal personality, assemblies for the establishment of trade unions and federations, as well as meetings organised in the exercise of the rights of workers and of legally recognised trade unions do not require authorisation, provided that they are held in the premises of the organisation and that their exclusive purpose is to examine matters considered under the legislation relevant to their objectives.
788.
Concerning the allegation regarding the prohibition of a meeting of Works' Union No. 6 of CODELCO, El Salvador Division, the Government points out, in its communication of 29 August 1985, that reasons of internal security obliged the authorities to suspend the right of assembly during these days.
This exceptional situation did in no way paralyse  trade union activity since during this period eight trade union meetings were held in the second fortnight of March by the trade unions of the El Salvador Division as well as elections by the complainant organisation on 2 July 1985.
An appeal for protection was lodged with the Appeal Court of Copiapó and was rejected.
789.
As regards the situation of Mr. Pedro Araya, leader of the National Trade Union of Professional Pilots and Technicians of the Lan-Chile company, the Government states, in its communication of 11 September 1985, that this trade union changed its executive on 6 and 13 September 1984;
only three persons out of a total of 18 members participated in the vote.
The undertaking then asked the Appeal Court of Santiago to dissolve the trade union under section 52(d) of Legislative Decree No. 2756 respecting trade union organisations, which makes provision for a minimum number of members (for works unions 25 members, representing at least 10 per cent of all the workers in the undertaking).
On 23 November 1984, the Appeal Court declared the trade union dissolved.
Following an appeal by the union executive to the Supreme Court, the latter confirmed the initial ruling.
On 30 April 1985, before the Labour Inspectorate of Maipú, Mr. Pedro Araya, signed an end-of-service receipt and received compensation equivalent to US$31,000.
790.
As regards the situation of Mr. Rodolfo Seguel, the Government states, in its communication of 15 August 1985, that he was dismissed from the CODELCO undertaking on 12 July 1983 for reasons which are covered by section 15, Nos. 3 and 4 of Legislative Decree No. 2200, in relation with the State Security Act No. 12927 of 1958, namely numerous acts likely to cause and promote work stoppages in the El Teniente Division as well as other unlawful acts.
Mr. Seguel's defence counsel subsequently asked the Second Civil Court of Rancagua to revoke the dismissal.
On 12 March 1984, the court rejected the appeal and thus confirmed the dismissal.
Following an appeal lodged by Mr. Seguel's counsel, on 28 June 1984, the Appeal Court of Rancagua annulled the ruling of the court of first instance.
The CODELCO undertaking then lodged an "appeal of complaint" with the Supreme Court which, on 18 July 1985, confirmed the ruling issued by the court of first instance.
Following a further appeal for "re-examination" lodged by Mr. Seguel's counsel, the Supreme Court, in a unanimous decision of the members of the competent chamber, confirmed the dismissal.
The Government points out that it was thus as a result of a decision by the judicial authorities and not the Government that Mr. Seguel was disqualified from exercising the trade union functions which he had held.
791.
The Government points out in this connection that the statutes of the Confederation of Copper Workers stipulate, in article 21, that the loss of the status of leader of an affiliated trade union entails the loss of the status as member of the Executive Council of the Confederation.
Furthermore, the statutes of the first level trade union stipulate that in order to be a trade union leader a worker must be employed in the undertaking.
Despite his dismissal, Mr. Seguel had been leader of the Caletones occupational trade union, No. 1 of the El Teniente Division.
792.
The Government points out that Mr. Seguel may not exercise trade union functions in the Confederation of Copper Workers pursuant to the statutes which the workers themselves have established.
On the basis of several principles of the Committee on Freedom of Association in this respect, the Government believes that the proceedings have respected freedom of association.
In the Annex to its communication the Government includes the judgements of the courts of first and second instance as well as the final decision of the Supreme Court.
793.
As regards the allegations concerning the arrest of Mr. Sergio Troncoso, the Government points out that this person was arrested for encouraging disorder and incidents in the street.
He was banished to Melinka on 6 August 1985 and then transferred to Puerto Cisnes on 22 August.
The Government adds that the other person mentioned by the complainants, Mr. Juan Ponce, has not been arrested or banished.
794.
As regards the events which took place during the demonstration of 4 September 1985, the Government states in its communication of 16 October 1985 that the Ministry of the Interior has requested the courts to determine the responsibility of the instigators, organisers and promoters of this protest day as well as that of the participants.
The Santiago Court has indicted Messrs. Seguel and Bustos on charges of violations of several provisions of the State Security Act (meetings aimed at the overthrow of the Government or at conspiracy against its stability;  calling of public meetings in public places without authorisation or liable to disturb public order;  inciting the interruption of collective suspension of or strikes in public services or public utilities which involve disturbances of public order or in these services).
The Court held Messrs. Seguel and Bustos to be repeated offenders.
Following an appeal by their defence counsel, the Supreme Court unanimously confirmed the decision of the Court of First Instance.
The four AGECH leaders were also arrested for their participation in the demonstration of 4 September 1985.
According to the Government, this day of protest led to ten deaths, the serious wounding of 18 police officers, over 100 injured persons, damage amounting to 100 million pesos caused by violent acts and serious damage to public property.
The judicial proceedings instituted against the responsible parties is at present continuing.
D.
The Committee's conclusions
795.
The Committee has taken note of the detailed replies furnished by the Government concerning the various aspects of this case.
It has also noted the general comments made by the Government concerning the trade union situation in Chile.
Although it shares the opinion of the Government that political questions do not fall within its sphere of competence, the Committee must stress the importance of the principle affirmed in 1970 by the International Labour Conference in its resolution concerning trade union rights and their relation to civil liberties that "the rights conferred upon workers' and employers' organisations must be based on respect for those civil liberties which have been enunciated in particular in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and that the absence of these civil liberties removes all meaning from the concept of trade union rights".
The Committee therefore believes that it is empowered, within the terms of its mandate, to examine to what extent the exercise of trade union rights may be affected in cases which allege the infringement of civil liberties.
796.
As regards the inquiries carried out into the deaths of Messrs. Aguirre, Parada, Guerrero and Natina, the Committee notes that the proceedings are still at the investigatory stage and that in the case concerning the three last mentioned persons, charges have been brought against two former police officers.
The Committee, while observing the excessive duration of these investigations, expresses its firm hope that they will be completed very soon and will result in the determination of responsibilities so that the guilty parties can be punished.
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of any developments in these matters.
797.
As regards the attacks against trade union premises, the Committee notes that, according to the Government, the forces of order did not enter these premises except in the case of the Confederation of Building Workers where they made inquiries concering precisely the assault on the trade union headquarters which had taken place a few hours before.
In these circumstances, the Committee can only stress the importance of protecting trade union premises and the need to shed light on these incidents which have occurred on several occasions.
The Committee therefore urges the Government to initiate judicial inquiries into the matter so that the perpetrators of such acts, which are particularly prejudicial to the exercise of trade union rights, may be identified as soon as possible.
It requests the Government to keep it informed in this respect.
798.
As regards the arrest and banishment of trade unionists, the Committee notes that the persons mentioned in the Annex to its previous report have regained their freedom of movement.
It points out, however, that despite the lifting of the state of siege, several allegations refer to new arrests and banishments concerning which the Government has supplied certain information (see Annex).
In the Committee's opinion the repeated application of measures of this type cannot but prove detrimental to labour relations in the country.
The Committee therefore requests the Government, with a view to restoring a climate of social peace and normal trade union activity, to take the necessary measures to end these banishments as soon as possible.
It requests the Government to keep it informed of all steps taken to this end.
799.
Furthermore, the Committee notes that several trade union leaders (Messrs. Troncoso, Fugueroa, Rivera, Bustamente and Bustos) have been either indicted or taken into custody and then released following the dropping of charges.
In this respect the Committee must point out that the arrest by the authorities of trade unionists against whom no subsequent charges are brought may involve restrictions on freedom of association.
Governments should take measures to ensure that the authorities concerned receive appropriate instructions to prevent the dangers involved for trade union activities by unjustified measures of arrest.
[See, in this regard, 207th Report, Case No. 963 (Grenada), para. 229;  211th Report, Case No. 1025 (Haiti), para. 272.]
800.
The Committee has, furthermore, received more recent allegations concerning the indictment of several trade union leaders including Messrs. Seguel and Bustos, and of their arrest following a demonstration organised by the National Grouping of Workers.
The Committee notes that, according to the Government, these measures were taken by the courts on the basis of offences committed under the State Security Act.
It notes that among the provisions referred to by the courts is that concerning the organisation of strikes in public services which, in the present case, took place during the national day of protest.
It recalls in this connection that trade union organisations should be able to have recourse to protest strikes with a view to defending the economic and social interests of their members.
The Committee requests the Government to supply information on the outcome of the judicial proceedings under way against those responsible for and the organisers of the day of protest.
801.
As regards the right of assembly, the Committee has noted the explanation supplied by the Government concerning the prohibition of a meeting by Works Union No. 6 of CODELCO, El Salvador Division, and its statements concerning the new provisions adopted in this respect during the state of emergency.
It notes in particular that under certain circumstances, no prior authorisation is required for trade union meetings held within the premises of the organisations.
The Government does not, however, state whether the authorities must be notified of these meetings.
In general, the Committee must once again point out that freedom of trade union assembly is one of the fundamental aspects of trade union rights and that the public authorities should refrain from any intervention likely to limit this right or impede its lawful exercise.
802.
The Committee has also been informed of several allegations concerning the dismissal of trade union leaders in the teaching, aviation, ports and mines sectors.
The Government transmitted replies on the dismissal of Messrs. Pedro Araya, President of the Union of Professional and Technical Pilots, and Seguel, leader of the Confederation of Copper Workers.
The Committee notes in particular that Mr. Pedro Araya accepted compensation for his dismissal after his trade union had been dissolved by the courts because of insufficient membership numbers.
In this respect, the Committee recalls that it does not appear that sufficient protection against acts of anti-union discrimination is accorded by legislation which, in practice, enables employers, on condition that they pay the compensation prescribed by law for cases of unfair dismissal, to get rid of any worker when the true reason for dismissal is his trade union membership or activity.
[See, for example, 211th Report, Case No. 1053 (Dominican Republic), para. 163.]
803.
As regards the case of Mr. Seguel, the Committee notes that this person was dismissed after judicial proceedings, according to the Government, for having carried out in particular acts to instigate or encourage work stoppages.
In these circumstances, the Committee must observe that Mr. Seguel's dismissal was due to acts which he carried out in pursuance of his trade union responsibilities and that such a dismissal is therefore a measure of anti-union discrimination.
This measure is all the more serious since under the legislation and statutes of the Confederation of Copper Workers, Mr. Seguel can no longer be empowered with a trade union mandate.
When trade union leaders are dismissed for having exercised their right to strike, the Committee cannot but conclude that they have been punished for their trade union activities and are the subject of anti-union discrimination.
The fact that a judicial authority intervenes in the dismissal procedure does not necessarily constitute, in the opinion of the Committee, a sufficient guarantee against acts of anti-union discrimination, since the powers of the judges in question are limited to ensuring that the national legislation has been correctly applied.
Furthermore, the dismissal of a trade union leader is liable to infringe the freedom of action of his organisation and its right to elect its representatives in full freedom, and may even leave the way open for acts of interference by the employer.
[See, for example, 147th Report, Case No. 667 (Sudan), para. 222.]
804.
The Committee notes furthermore that the Government has not replied concerning the dismissals of trade union leaders in the teaching sector (Messrs. Mancilla, Aguilar, Maldonado, Trujillo, Torres) and in the port sector (Mr. Aguirre).
The Committee requests the Government to supply its observations in this respect.
The Committee's recommendations
805.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes that, since its last examination of this case, several matters which had been the subject of allegations before the Committee have not been dealt with by the administrative authorities, but have been placed before the judiciary.
(b)
As regards the inquiries carried out into the death of Messrs. Aguirre, Parada, Guerrero and Natina, the Committee notes that proceedings are still at the investigatory stage.
While observing the excessive duration of these investigations, it expresses the firm hope that these inquiries will be concluded rapidly and will result in the determination of responsibilities so that the guilty parties can be punished.
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of developments in these matters.
(c)
As regards the attacks against trade union premises, the Committee notes that, according to the Government, the forces of order did not enter these premises.
The Committee stresses the importance of protecting trade union premises.
It urges the Government to initiate judicial inquiries into the matter so that the responsible parties may be identified as soon as possible and requests the Government to keep it informed in this respect.
(d)
As regards the arrest and banishment of trade unionists, the Committee notes that the persons mentioned in the Annex of its previous report have regained their freedom of movement.
It observes, however, that despite the lifting of the state of siege, several allegations refer to new arrests and banishments concerning which the Government has supplied certain information.
The Committee requests the Government, with a view to restoring social peace and normal trade union activities, to take the necessary measures to end these banishments as soon as possible.
It also asks the Government to keep it informed of all steps taken to this end.
(e)
As regards the indictment and preventive detention of trade union leaders, the Committee points out that the arrest by the authorities of trade unionists against whom no subsequent charges are brought may involve restrictions to freedom of association.
The Government should take measures to ensure that the authorities concerned receive appropriate instructions to prevent the dangers involved for trade union activities by unjustified measures of arrest.
The Committee reminds the Government that trade union organisations should be able to have recourse to protest strikes with a view to defending the economic and social interests of their members.
It requests the Government to supply information on the outcome of the judicial proceedings under way against those responsible for and the organisers of the day of protest held on 4 September 1985.
(f)
As regards the right of assembly, the Committee recalls in general that freedom of trade union assembly is one of the fundamental aspects of trade union rights and that the public authorities should refrain from any interference which is likely to limit this right or impede its lawful exercise.
(g)
As regards the dismissals of trade union leaders, the Committee points out that the dismissal of a trade union leader is liable, by reason of the fact that dismissal causes him to lose his status as a trade union officer, to infringe the freedom of association of his organisation and its right to elect its representatives in full freedom and may even leave the way open for acts of interference by the employer.
The Committee requests the Government to furnish its observations concerning the dismissals of trade union leaders in the teaching and port sectors.
ANNEX
LIST OF PERSONS MENTIONED BY THE COMPLAINANTS AS HAVING BEEN ARRESTED AND THE GOVERNMENTS'S REPLIES CONCERNING THEM
ABARZUA Sergio
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 31 December 1984.
AGUILAR Juan
Banishment ended on 18 March 1985.
ARANCIBIA Julio
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 24 January 1985.
ARANCIBIA Miguel
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 13 May 1985.
ARANCIBIA Oscar
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
ARAYA Jorge
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
AREVALO Vladimir
Banishment ended on 21 March 1985.
BUSTAMANTE Manuel
Charged with violation of the State Security Act.
Released on bail.
Case closed following the dismissal of charges.
CASTRO Ricardo
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
CELEDON Luis
No information concerning any arrest.
COLOMA José
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
DEL RIO Rolando
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 10 February 1985.
DINAMARCA Manuel
Banishment ended on 30 July 1985.
DINAMARCA Neftalí
Banishment ended on 1 March 1985.
ELOY Oscar
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
ESCOBAR Vladimir
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 24 January 1985.
ESTORGIO José
Charged with violation of the State Security Act.
Released on bail.
Case closed following the dismissal of charges.
FAUNDEZ Luis
Banishment ended on 28 February 1985.
FIGUEROA Luis
Charged with violation of the State Security Act.
Released on bail.
Case closed following the dismissal of charges.
FUENTES Adrián
Banishment ended on 15 July 1985.
FUENTESECA Douglas
Banishment ended on 4 March 1985.
GAC Victor Hugo
Banishment ended on 30 July 1985.
GARCIA Patricio
No information concerning any arrest.
GUTIERREZ Jorge
Banishment ended on 26 February 1985.
GUTIERREZ Luis
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
LEAL René
Banishment ended on 28 February 1985.
LILLO Pedro
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 24 January 1985.
LOYOLA Eduardo
No information concerning any arrest.
MADRID Eugenio
Banishment ended on 30 July 1985.
MANRIQUEZ Victor
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
MARILEO Domingo
Banishment ended on 4 April 1985.
MILLAN Hector
Banishment ended on 28 February 1985.
PILQUIL Manuel
Banishment ended on 4 April 1985.
SANTOS José
Banishment ended on 4 April 1985.
SIERRA de la FUENTE Benjamin
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
SOVAL Sergio
No information concerning any arrest. SUAREZ Antonio
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
TAPIA Lino
Banishment ended on 23 March 1985.
TRONCOSO Sergio
Charged with violation of the State Security Act.
Released on bail.
Case closed after dismissal of charges.
Subsequently banished to Melinka and then to Puerto Cisnes.
VALENCIA Guillermo
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
VALENZUELA José
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 24 January 1985.
AGUIRRE Sergio
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 20 May 1985.
ARCOS Humberto
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
AVENDAÑO Enrique
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
CANCINO Segundo
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
CUETO Carlos
Banishment ended on 29 June 1985.
DIANTA Pablo
Banishment ended on 29 June 1985.
OLIVARES Sergio
Banishment ended on 18 March 1985.
OPAZO Carlos
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
ORDENES Luis de Cruz
Banishment ended on 29 June 1985.
PEÑA Luis
Banishment ended in advance of scheduled date on 17 January 1985.
SANCHEZ Salatiel
Banishment ended on 29 June 1985.
ZAPATA Darió
Banishment ended on 29 June 1985.
MONTECINOS Raúl
No information concerning any arrest.
PONCE Juan
Neither arrested nor banished.
BUSTOS Manuel
Charged and arrested for violation of the State Security Act.
SEGUEL Rodolfo
Charged and arrested for violation of the State Security Act.
PAVEZ Jorge
Arrested for participating in the demonstration of 4 September 1985.
BELLO Samuel
Arrested for participation in the demonstration of 4 September 1985.
CAMPO Luis
Arrested for participation in the demonstration of 4 September 1985.
POBLETE Carlos
Arrested for participation in the demonstration of 4 September 1985.
LIST OF PERSONS MENTIONED BY THE COMPLAINANTS AS HAVING BEEN ARRESTED AND ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING THEM, ON WHICH THE GOVERNMENT HAS NOT YET SENT INFORMATION
ARAYA Lorenzo
President of the Autofagasta Building Worker's Trade Union, banished to Lago Verde.
PIANTA Pablo
Leader of the San Antonio Building Worker's Trade Union, banished to Toconao.
RIVAS Abraham
Treasurer of the Concepción Building Worker's Trade Union, banished to Sierra Gorda.
DEIJ Antonio
Secretary of the Concepción Building Worker's Trade Union, banished to Conchi.
RUIZ di GIORGIO José
President of the Petroleum Workers' Trade Union, arrested.
ROZAS María
AGECH leader, arrested.
JEREZ Mercedes
AGECH leader, arrested.
GALLARDO Claudio
CONSTRAMET leader, arrested and banished.
MARTINEZ Arturo
President of the Confederation of Workers in the graphics industry;
arrested.
SOTO Humberto
Secretary-General of the Unitary Front of Workers;
arrested.
LILLO Edmundo
President of the National Federation of Workers in Commerce;
arrested.
OSORIO Eduardo
AGECH leader;
arrested.
FIGUEROA José
Substitute President of the Confederation of Building Workers;
arrested.
RIVERA José
National leader of the Confederation of Building Workers;
arrested.
Case No. 1326
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TEACHERS' UNIONS AND THE SRAMIK KARMACHARI OKKYA PARISHAD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
806.
The World Federation of Teachers' Unions presented a complaint of violations of trade union rights in a communication dated 3 April 1985.
The Sramik Karmachari Okkya Parishad, jointly with the following 14 Bangladeshi trade union federations, presented its complaint on 27 May 1985:  Bangladesh Workers Federation, Bangladesh Trade Union Sangha, Bangladesh Federation of Labour, Bangladesh Trade Union Kandra, Jatio Sramik Federation, Ganatantrik Sramik Andolon, Jatio Sramik League, Samaj Tantrik Sramik Federation, Jatio Sramik Jote, Sangukta Sramik Federation, Jatio Sramik League - Bangladesh, Bangla Sramik Federation, Bangladesh Sramik Federation, Jatiotabadi Sramik Dal.
The Government replied in a communication dated 29 June 1985.
807.
Bangladesh has ratified both the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No.98);
it has not ratified the Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 (No. 151).
A.
The complainants' allegations
808.
In its communication of 3 April 1985, the World Federation of Teachers' Unions alleges the detention, at the beginning of March, of several teachers including Mr. Shareful Islam and Mr. Ppal Abdul Mannan, President and Secretary-General respectively of the Bangladesh College Teachers' Association (BCTA), an affiliate of this complainant, after the reimposition of martial law on 1 March 1985.
The complainant states that they have been sentenced to one month's detention by application of the Special Power Act No. 74.
It points out that Mr. Shareful Islam has already suffered, in the past, several months' imprisonment because of his trade union activities.
It denounces the Government of Bangladesh for violations of Conventions Nos. 87, 98, 151 and the joint ILO/UNESCO Recommendation on the Status of Teachers of 1966.
It fears that the detention will be extended and requests the cessation of proceedings and the release of the imprisoned teachers.
809.
In the communication of 27 May 1985 presented jointly by a total of 15 Bangladeshi trade union federations, it is alleged that the Government has violated Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 by the introduction of martial law on l March 1985.
According to the federations, under martial law, trade union activities are banned as are the holding of meetings, collective bargaining and strikes.
810.
The complainants state that the Government has arrested many trade unionists without giving reasons and has held them in custody over the last few months without trial.
811.
More specifically, the complainants refer to the following legislation as infringing freedom of association:  the Industrial Relations Ordinance of 1969 (which restricts the right to join trade unions of public servants and management staff and which restricts election to union office to those employed in the particular establishment);  Rule 10 of Industrial Relations Regulations of 1977 (which empowers the Registrar of Trade Unions to enter trade union premises and inspect or seize any union record).
The complainants also allege that public sector employees and public servants are denied the right to bargain collectively.
B.
The Government's reply
812.
In its communication of 29 June 1985, the Government states that there is no registered trade union in Bangladesh named the "Bangladesh College Teachers' Association" and that Mr. Shareful Islam and Mr. Abdul Mannan are not known in the trade union sphere as trade union leaders.
813.
Moreover, according to the Government, the law prohibits any trade union activity by any organisation which has not been registered under the Industrial Relations Ordinance and such activity would be a penal offence.
Nevertheless, no prosecution proceedings have been commenced by the Registrar of Trade Unions against the persons in question.
The Government states that it is examining the case very carefully and will furnish detailed information shortly.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
814.
The Committee notes that this case concerns the re-imposition of martial law in Bangladesh on l March 1985 and the alleged consequent arrest of several teachers including two teachers' union leaders, Mr. Shareful Islam and Mr. Abdul Mannan.
The complainants also allege that the current labour legislation infringes the principles of freedom of association.
815.
The Committee observes that, although one of the complainants infers that Mr. Shareful Islam was arrested because of his trade union activities, the Government denies that the two named individuals are known in the trade union sphere as trade union leaders and that proceedings have been instituted against them by the Registrar of Trade Unions.
It also points out that there is no registered trade union of the name of their organisation, namely the Bangladesh College Teachers' Association.
In this respect, the Committee recalls that it has already had occasion to examine similar allegations against the Government of Bangladesh concerning Mr. Shareful Islam when he was Secretary-General of the Bangladesh College Teachers' Association (Case No. 1246 examined in the Committee's 234th Report, paras. 66 to 74, approved by the Governing Body at its 226th Session, May-June 1984).
In that case the Government recognised both the existence of the trade union association involved and Mr. Islam's role in it.
816.
The Committee regrets that the complainant organisations, despite having opportunities to do so, did not supply more detailed information as to the circumstances surrounding the alleged arrests, in particular the arrest of Mr. Abdul Mannan and Mr. Islam.
However, in view of the fact that at least in the case of Mr. Islam, his trade union role and activities have been put forward as the sole basis for the action taken against him, the Committee would stress that, in such cases, it has considered it incumbent upon the Government to show that the measures taken were in no way occasioned by the trade union activities of the individual concerned.
[See, for example, 103rd Report, Case No. 536 (Gabon), para. 292.]
Given that the Government has undertaken to supply further information, the Committee hopes that details will be forthcoming as to whether any arrests took place (and, if so, for what reasons and on the basis of which legislation, i.e. under the Special Power Act No. 74, under the Industrial Relations Ordinance or other legislation), so as to enable it to reach conclusions on this aspect of the case in full knowledge of the facts.
817.
As regards the alleged restrictions on trade union rights consequent on the re-introduction of martial law and the specific restrictions on the freedom of association and collective bargaining rights of public employees contained in the labour legislation, the Committee notes that the ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, in its l985 examination of the Government's compliance with its obligations under Conventions Nos. 87 and 98, pointed to several discrepancies between the rights guaranteed under these Conventions and the present legislation.
818.
In particular, the Committee of Experts in its observation concerning Convention No. 87 noted that, under section 2(xxviii)(b) of the Industrial Relations Ordinance, the definition of a worker excludes a person who is employed in a managerial or administrative capacity.
It noted the Government's statement that it is not possible to determine the nature of the employment covered by this provision or the number of persons concerned.
The Committee of Experts pointed out that, by virtue of Article 9 of Convention No. 87, only the armed forces and the police may be excluded from the scope of the Convention and that the rights it sets forth must, therefore, also be recognised to public servants and managerial staff. It requested the Government to adopt appropriate measures to guarantee the application of the principles of the Convention to these categories of workers.
The Committee of Experts also observed that section 7A(l)(a)(ii) and (b) of the Industrial Relations Ordinance limits the right to be a member or officer of a trade union to persons actually employed in an establishment or group of establishments concerned.
It considered that a provision of this kind restricts the right of workers to establish and to join organisations of their own choosing (Article 2 of Convention No. 87), to elect their representatives in full freedom and to organise their administration and activities (Article 3).
It noted with interest the Government's statement that it was prepared to examine these provisions and that measures to ease them are under study, and pointed out that the free exercise of the right to establish and to join unions implies the free determination of the structure and composition of unions.
It also considered that restrictive conditions attached to trade union office constitute interference in the internal affairs of the unions.
The Committee of Experts, therefore, hoped that these provisions would be repealed in the near future.
In addition, the Committee of Experts noted that, under Rule 10 of the Industrial Relations Regulations, 1977, the Registrar or any other officer authorised by him may enter the premises of a trade union or federation of trade unions and inspect and seize any record, register or other document.
This procedure, under which an administrative authority has wide powers of supervision over the internal affairs of a trade union, is, according to the Committee of Experts, incompatible with the right of workers to organise their administration (Article 3 of Convention No. 87).
The Committee again requested the Government to reconsider this provision.
819.
In its 1985 observation concerning Bangladesh's observance of Convention No. 98, the Committee of Experts emphasised that, under Article 4 of this Convention, it is the responsibility of the Government to take appropriate measures to encourage and promote the full development and utilisation of machinery for voluntary negotiation, and noted that it had previously observed that, under the State-Owned Manufacturing Industries Act, No. X of 1974, the Government may determine wages and other conditions of employment (leave) for any worker employed in this sector.
Referring to its General Survey submitted to the 69th (1983) Session of the International Labour Conference, particularly paragraph 311, the Committee of Experts pointed out that the right to negotiate wages and conditions of employment freely with the employers and their organisations is a fundamental aspect of freedom of association and that if, for compelling reasons of national economic interest, a government considers that wage rates cannot be fixed freely through collective agreements, such a restriction should be imposed as an exceptional measure and only so far as is necessary, without exceeding a reasonable period and should be accompanied by adequate safeguards to protect the living standards of the workers.
It accordingly requested the Government to reconsider the situation in the light of these comments, with a view to restoring voluntary bargaining in the sector concerned.
820.
Despite the lack of a specific reply from the Government on the legislative aspect of the case, the Committee can only recall the Committee of Experts' request that the Government reconsider the legislative situation with a view to bringing the legislation into conformity with the principles of freedom of association.
It reaches this decision in particular since, in past cases [See 235th and 238th Reports, Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029 (Turkey), paras. 33 and 36], the Committee has stressed that martial law is incompatible with the full exercise of trade union rights.
The Committee's recommendations
821.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
in view of the lack of information from both the complainants and the Government concerning the alleged arrest of two named teachers' union leaders, the Committee hopes that the further reply promised by the Government will shed light on the circumstances so as to enable it to reach conclusions on this aspect of the case in full knowledge of the facts;
(b)
the Committee recalls the Committee of Experts' request - made in the context of its 1985 examination of the Government's application of Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 - that the Government reconsider the legislative situation regarding the right to organise of managerial and administrative employees, election to trade union office, administrative powers of supervision over the internal affairs of unions and collective bargaining in State-owned manufacturing industries, so as to bring the legislation into conformity with the principles of freedom of association.
Case No. 1330
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF AGRICULTURAL, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYEES AND FIVE OTHER TRADE UNIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
822.
The complaint is contained in a communication from the National Association of Agricultural, Commercial and Industrial Employees (NAACIE) dated 9 April 1985.
The Government replied in a communication dated 31 July 1985.
823.
Guyana has ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87) and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
It has also ratified the Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 (No. 151).
A.
The complainants' allegations
824.
The complainants allege that fundamental norms and principles proclaimed in accepted international labour practice are being deliberately and systematically flouted as a result of government policy;  that freedom of association and trade union rights have come under assault as a result of deliberate government action, including the concurrent holding of public office and of positions of responsibility within the Trade Union Congress by government ministers and senior public officials and through the employment of intimidation to prevent the recognition of freely chosen trade unions.
In addition it is alleged that the right of collective bargaining has been directly attacked through the Government's imposition of a negotiating partner for public sector employees, and by the removal of contractual rights through the Labour Amendment Act.
825.
In a memorandum contained in its communication, the complainant sets out details concerning a number of industrial disputes which it alleges involved discriminatory and or intimidatory action against workers and trade union officials who had been engaged in strikes which had occurred in March and May 1983 respectively in government-owned enterprises in the packaging and the mining industries;
and provides instances of such action which it alleges was taken against trade union members and officials in other state-owned enterprises.
It also provides information relating to events which took place in March 1984 in relation to the sugar industry concerning workers employed by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, which it alleges gave rise to the passage of the Labour Amendment Act and elaborates its objections to this legislation which it claims, inter alia, altered the fundamental rights clause of the Constitution in relation to property; reversed a Court of Appeal decision upholding the contractual rights of workers in the sugar industry;  and interfered with free collective bargaining by making an agreement entered into in 1977 between the Guyana Trades Union Congress (GTUC) and the Government, and any other such agreement entered into in future, binding on all public sector employees.
826.
In relation to the last of these matters, the complainant states that there can be no genuine or proper collective bargaining between the Government and the GTUC because two Ministers and a Parliamentary Secretary are members of the GTUC executive and are privy to all decisions taken at executive level;
as the ministers are said to accept the doctrine of paramountcy of the party and are bound by oath to Cabinet secrecy, it is the Government that benefits from their presence on the GTUC executive.
827.
Concerning the action taken against trade union members and officials in the mining industry, the complainant alleges that 1,721 workers at Guyana Mining Enterprises Limited were dismissed under the guise of retrenchment in July 1983, following a general strike in the bauxite industry which had resulted from the imposition by the employers of a three-day week in retaliation for a one-day-per-week strike decided in May 1983 by the Guyana Mine Workers Union (GMWU) and the Guyana Bauxite Supervisors Union (GBSU).
Among those affected were a number of trade union officials, including the President of the GBSU, the Treasurer of the GMWU and all the shop stewards.
Efforts by the GTUC to secure reinstatement of the workers had been unsuccessful.
828.
Actions relating to workers employed at Seals and Packaging Industry Limited (in which a majority of the shares are said to be owned by the Government) which are the subject of the complaint are alleged to have arisen after workers in the industry had requested the complainant to act as their sole bargaining agent in February 1983;
its application was referred by the company to the Ministry of Labour for advice following a request for bargaining rights on behalf of the workers by the Guyana Labour Union (GLU), which, the complainant alleges, is government-backed.
The complainant states that the Ministry sought the guidance of the GTUC which it alleges was supporting and had been controlled by the Government.
It further alleges that pressure was brought to bear on workers to join the GLU, which it claims they refused to do (it attaches a petition signed by 27 workers and addressed to the GTUC, inter alia supporting the GTUC's advice that a poll be held and pledging their support to the complainant).
It states that shortly thereafter two of its militant members were retrenched although they were skilled workers, and casual workers were retained;  that this gave rise to a protest strike by the entire workforce, which was only called off after two days, following an agreement between the complainant's General Secretary and the Chief Labour Officer.
On reporting for duty following the ending of the strike, all workers were, according to the complainant, refused entry and served with letters stating that, as a result of the strike action, management had concluded that they had of their own volition and by design terminated their employment.
The complainant states that subsequently it advised workers to accept offers of re-employment despite the company's indication to some workers that this would happen only if they stopped union agitation.
Seven of the workers were not re-employed.
The complainant concludes this aspect of its allegations by stating that the workers at the company are still insisting that it be recognised as sole bargaining agent, but that the Government will not allow an independent union to make inroads into the public sector and is guilty of fostering "company unionism".
829.
Other allegations of anti-union discrimination by the complainants concern:  (a) the dismissal, by the General Secretary of the General Workers Union of one of the union's field officers and the Treasurer, both of whom are said to have applied to the courts for redress, though this process is said to be tardy, and the retrenchment of another field officer following his reversion to service with the Guyana Rice Board.
These dismissals are said to have taken place because the individuals involved voted in GTUC elections against the wishes of the ruling party;
(b)
under the same heading, the complainant refers to the dismissal of two employees of the Guyana Co-operative Mortgage Finance Bank.
B.
The Government's reply
830.
In its communication of 31 July the Government denies the complainant's general allegation concerning the flouting of international labour standards;
it points out that no evidence is adduced in this regard and that, although it also denies that there have been departures from good industrial relations, it is of the view that the complainants have been unable to show that alleged defects of this kind have been deliberately occasioned by the Government or its policies.
It also denies that freedom of association and other trade union rights are under assault by the Government as alleged.
831.
It states that the two Ministers and the Parliamentary Secretary who are on the executive of the GTUC were elected to that body prior to their appointment to government office, and that they continue to serve the TUC, having been re-elected to their positions;  that there is nothing in the Constitution of the GTUC to disqualify them from holding such positions while holding ministerial ofice;
and it cites precedents from other countries in the West Indies where public personalities have occupied ministerial posts at the same time as high trade union office.
832.
On the question of the use of intimidation to prevent the recognition of freely chosen trade unions, the Government states that the party in power does not use intimidatory tactics, and that recognition issues are processed in accordance with accepted procedures.
Where such issues involve trade unions which are members of the GTUC they are submitted to that body, which is independent and whose deliberations the party in office cannot and does not direct, and which thereafter submits its advice to the Ministry of Manpower and Co-operatives for further action.
833.
According to the Government the right to collective bargaining is not being attacked.
It points out in this regard that it has recently ratified Convention No. 154 on the Right to Collective Bargaining and that it fully respects is obligations thereunder.
It further points out that the complainant unions are part of a GTUC delegation which is presently negotiating wage increases in the public sector, and that all the unions in that sector form part of the GTUC's team which negotiates with the Government.
834.
As regards the allegations relating to the mining industry, an annexure attached to the Government's communication states that, although Guyana Mining Enterprises Limited is wholly owned by the Government, it would be wrong to assume that any breach by the company of accepted labour relations practices indicates a breach by the Government of its obligations under international labour instruments.
It adds that the complainants' allegations are wholly lacking in merit;  that the company's initial reduction of the working week during the course of the one-day-per-week stoppage was not retaliation but the result of economic considerations, i.e. considerable losses which were being sustained since 1982 and which would in any event have led to a reduction in the workforce;  that the sudden and unstructured reduction in the effective strengh of the workforce by that stoppage made matters worse so that the only alternative to shutting down operations completely was a reduction in the working week;  and that the general strike in the industry had further exacerbated the situation.
The ending of the strike had been preceded by an agreement that the company and the union would meet for the purpose of recommending measures for the reduction in operating costs and ensuring the continued viability of the enterprise;
such meetings had taken place, but no agreement had been reached and as a result the company had been obliged to proceed with an exercise involving limited retrenchment, details of which had been disclosed at a meeting with the GTUC and the unions, at which the Minister of Manpower and Co-operatives had presided, and which are outlined in the Government's communication.
These relate, inter alia, to the fact that 1,428 (not 1,721 as alleged) employees had been retrenched, with a further 330 being reinstated later; and to the categories of workers to be involved (according to age or length of service) as well as the procedures to be followed by managers.
The Government acknowledges that the entire branch executive of the union was retrenched at one plant, along with other workers, and all union officers but two had been retrenched at another plant, but it states that in the first of these instances the plant had not operated as a production unit for more than a year, and as regards the second the number by which the workforce was reduced was decided without references to names or union positions held.
It confirms that a number of union officials, including some but not all shop stewards, were among those who have been retrenched, but strongly denies any victimisation and states that the cause was economic necessity and the process took full account of the applicable criteria.
It points out furthermore that a number of the retrenched union officials were among those who were reinstated and that this in its view corroborates the absence of victimisation.
835.
As regards the recognition aspects of the events at Seals and Packaging Industry Limited, the Government refers to the fact that two unions had requested sole bargaining rights, and that the company had asked for the Ministry's assistance, following which it had sought the advice of the GTUC in keeping with recognised and accepted industrial relations practice.
It had subsequently received a copy of a letter from 27 workers urging the GTUC to advise the Ministry to conduct a poll in order to resolve the dispute.
Up to the present, the GTUC had not tendered advice though it had informed the Ministry in August 1983 that one of its committees had been asked to expedite its report on the union recognition dispute.
The Government adds that in the meantime the workers had decided against being represented by either of the unions seeking sole bargaining rights and were represented by a staff association;
there had been no agitation for recognition of either union.
836.
As regards dismissal of workers at Seals and Packaging Industry Limited, the Government states that it was informed by the company that there had been an unofficial strike involving 22 casual workers, over a period of approximately one month in June and July 1983.
Three of those who had been on strike returned to work at its conclusion and, although 19 had been given notices of termination, all but seven (who had not responded to the company's invitation to return) were re-employed without break of service.
The dismissal of the seven was, the Government states, totally unrelated to their trade union activities.
The Government further states that the retrenchment of the two union activists referred to by the complainant came about because the special project on which they had been working came to an end and they had consequently become redundant.
837.
As regards the other allegations of dismissals, the Government states that it was not requested to mediate in the case of the two officials of the General Workers Union (GWU) who were dismissed and have sought redress through the courts, although it regards the complainant's remark about the tardiness of the process as unfair and irresponsible, especially in view of the reference in another part of the complaint to the role of the courts in upholding claims by workers.
As to the GWU official who had been retrenched after re-employment by the Guyana Rice Board, this person had previously had no guaranteed post but had been employed seasonally;
he had been made redundant after the plant at which he had been employed had been to a large extent destroyed by fire, which resulted in the laying off of other employees there as well.
The Government denies any impropriety on its part as regards the dismissal of the two employees of the Guyana Co-operative Mortgage Finance Bank, in respect of whom no representations had been made by the staff association of the bank and whom the Government was advised had been dismissed, after warnings, for late arrivals at work.
838.
Finally, as regards the Labour Amendment Act, the Government points out that the matter is sub judice as the validity and constitutionality of the entire Act are being challenged following the hearing of an extremely complicated case in respect of which judgement had not yet been rendered;
it does, however, deny that the Act in any way violates the Constitution or accepted labour relations practices and requirements.
C.
The conclusions of the Committee
839.
The Committee observes that there appear to be four principal aspects to the complainant's allegations.
These are:  (a) those relating to the dual governmental and trade union functions of members of the GTUC executive; (b) those relating to the deliberate policy which the Government is following and which are said to amount to an assault on trade union rights and a flouting of fundamental norms and practices of international labour practice; (c) specified action in relation to industrial disputes or concerning trade union activists which, it is claimed, involves the violation of trade union rights;  and (d) the effects of the Labour Amendment Act on collective bargaining and collective agreements.
840.
With regard to the last of these, the Committee notes that the matter is sub judice , as the result of a challenge to the validity and the constitutionality of the Labour Amendment Act before the courts by three workers through their union (the principal complainant in this case).
It requests the Government to supply it with a copy of the judgement of the court as soon as this is available, so that it may reach a conclusion on this aspect of the case in full possession of all the relevant information.
At the same time, it draws the matter to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations.
841.
As regards the dual governmental and trade union functions of members of the GTUC executive, the Committee asks the complainants to supply details on this allegation and, in particular, to indicate what consequences this has on the exercise of trade union rights.
842.
As regards the allegations relating to the Government's deliberate policy of violations of trade union rights, their generalised character and range lead the Committee to the conclusion that, in the absence of more detailed information relating the alleged policy to a particular course of conduct involving the infringement of rights of freedom of association, this aspect of the case does not call for further examination.
843.
Concerning the specific allegations of dismissals of workers and trade union leaders, the Committee observes that the information supplied by the complainants and by the Government are contradictory.
It is consequently of the view that it is not in a position to arrive at conclusions on this aspect of the case.
844.
On the subject of the recognition of sole bargaining rights at Seals and Packaging Industry Limited, the Committee notes that the Government chose to refer the matter for advice to the Guyana Trades Union Congress, but that such advice has not been forthcoming despite the lapse of more than two years since the question was first raised;
and the information supplied by the Government to the effect that, in the meantime, the workers have decided against being represented by a sole bargaining agent and are represented by a staff association.
The Committee recalls its earlier decisions that it is not necessarily incompatible with Convention No. 87 to provide for the certification of the most representative union in a given unit as the exclusive bargaining agent, but that in such cases there is a need to provide certain safeguards, which include (a) certification by an independent body, and (b) the choice of the representative organisation by a majority vote of the employees in the unit concerned.
[See, for example, the 121st Report of the Committee, Case No. 624 (UK/British Honduras), para. 56;  187th Report, Case No. 796 (Bahamas), para. 173;  222nd Report, Case No. 1163 (Cyprus), para. 313.]
The Committee is of the view that these principles are appropriate to the situation and expresses the hope that the Government will find it possible to give effect to them.
The Committee's recommendations
845.
In these circumstances, the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve the present interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee requests the Government to supply it with a copy of the judgement of the court concerning the validity and the constitutionality of the Labour Amendment Act as soon as this becomes available, so that it may reach a conclusion on this aspect of the case in full possession of all the relevant information.
(b)
The Committee asks the complainant organisations to supply details on their allegation concerning the dual governmental and trade union functions of members of the GTUC executive and, in particular, to indicate what consequences this has on the exercise of trade union rights.
(c)
The Committee draws aspects of the case relating to the Labour Amendment Act to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations.
(d)
The Committee expresses the hope that, in relation to the recognition of sole bargaining rights, the Government will find it possible to give effect to the principle that it is not necessarily incompatible with Convention No. 87 to provide for certification of the most representative union in a given bargaining unit as the exclusive bargaining agent, but that in such cases there is a need to provide for certain safeguards which include (a) certification by an independent body and (b) the choice of the representative organisation by a majority vote of the employees in the unit concerned.
Case No. 1333
COMPLAINT PRESENTED BY THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN
846.
The World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) submitted a complaint of violations of trade union rights against the Government of Jordan on 30 April 1985.
The Government sent its observations in a communication dated 28 May 1985.
847.
Jordan has not ratified the Freedom of Association and the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87);
it has ratified the Protection of the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
The complainant's allegations
848.
In its communication of 30 April 1985, the WFTU states that, on 14 February 1985, government forces arrested Mohammad Hussein Qasem, President of the General Federation of Commercial, Shops and Professional Trades Unions.
It also alleges that, on 13 April 1984, government forces arrested Abdul Razzaq Said Issa, the General-Secretary of the Trade Union of Workers in Banks and Insurance, for trade union activities.
According to the WFTU, the case of Mr. Said Issa has not been referred to the courts.
849.
The complainant states that these acts constitute grave violations of trade union rights as enshrined in Conventions Nos. 87 and 98 and requests action towards their unconditional release and full respect of fundamental trade union rights in Jordan.
B.
The Government's reply
850.
In its communication of 28 May 1985, the Government states that Mr. Mohammad Hussein Qasem ceased to be a trade union representative on 12 January 1984 both as regards the Trade Union Committee of Workers in Furniture and Household Appliances Industries and the Board of the General Union of Workers in Commercial, Personal and Private Handicraft Shops to which he had previously been affiliated.
The Government points out that the General Union of Workers in Commercial, Personal and Private Handicraft Shops is composed of three trade union committees (the Trade Union Committee of Workers in Furniture and Household Appliances Industries, the Trade Union Committee of Workers in Footwear Industries and Leather Industries, and the Trade Union Committee of Workers in Sewing Industries) all of which nominate three members to the nine-man board of the general union.
According to the Government, on 19 November 1983 the Ministry of Labour and Social Development received a memorandum from the Trade Union Committee of Workers in Furniture and Household Appliances Industries stating that the number of candidates for membership of that trade union committee was nine and that they had been elected without a vote.
Mr. Qasem, not having presented himself as a candidate, was consequently not a member of that committee.
Moreover, on 12 January 1984, the Ministry received a memorandum from the same trade union committee stating that Mr. Qasem was excluded from the board of the union for various defamatory acts and the circulation of false rumours.
The Government therefore concludes that, since the arrest of Mr. Qasem took place in February 1985, it could not have been related to his trade union activities in which he ceased to play any role sometime before.
851.
According to the Government, information from competent security sources states that the arrest of Mr. Qasem was due to his activities as a leader of the underground Popular Front/Jordan Branch which, according to its rules was aimed at overthrowing the Jordanian regime by use of force.
Mr. Qasem was brought before the competent tribunal, given the possibility of defending himself, found guilty and sentenced to five years' imprisonment.
The Government states that the Ministry of Labour and Social Development is no longer responsible for the follow-up of his case.
852.
As regards Mr. Said Issa, the Government states that he is a member of the board of the Union of Workers in Banks, Insurance Companies and Accounting to which he was elected in 1983.
On 18 April 1985, the Ministry of Labour and Social Development was informed by that union of his arrest on 14 April, without mentioning the reasons for his arrest.
According to authorised security sources, Mr. Said Issa was arrested for being a member of the underground Popular Front/Jordan Branch.
He was brought before the competent tribunal, given the possibility of defending himself, found guilty and sentenced to five years' imprisonment.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Development is no longer responsible for following up his case.
C.
The Committee's conclusions
853.
The Committee notes that this case concerns the arrest - in April 1984 and February 1985 - of two trade union leaders and their subsequent sentencing to five years' imprisonment.
It notes, in particular, that the reasons given for the arrests and imprisonment are directly contradictory:
the complainant organisation alleges that they were due to the trade union activities of the persons concerned, and the Government states that they were due to their membership of an underground organisation aimed at overthrowing the Government by force.
Although the complainant itself gives no further details concerning the link between these persons' trade union activities and their arrests, the Government also does not give sufficient detail concerning the charges brought against them and does not supply a copy of the judgement handed down by the courts involved.
854.
Given the conflicting nature of the complainant's allegation and the Government's reply, and while regretting the absence of more detailed information, the Committee would recall in general that in cases such as this involving the arrest, detention and sentencing of trade union officials, it has always taken the view that individuals have the right to be presumed innocent until found guilty.
Moreover, it has considered that it is incumbent upon the Government to show that the measures involved were no way occasioned by the trade union activities of the individuals concerned [see, for example, 112th Report, Case No. 569 (Chad), para. 185 and 234th Report, Case No. 1246 (Bangladesh), para. 71].
855.
The Committee further notes that the Government denies that one of the persons mentioned by the complainant organisation - Mr. Qasem - held trade union office at the time of his arrest in February 1985.
The Committee would recall in this connection that protection against anti-union discrimination applies equally to trade union members and former trade union officials as to current trade union leaders.
Nevertheless, in accordance with its normal practice in cases where complainants allege that trade union leaders or workers have been arrested for trade union activities and the government's reply amounts to general denials of the allegation or is simply to the effect that the arrests were for subversive activities, for reasons of internal security or for common law crimes, the Committee requests the Government to supply further and as precise information as possible concerning the arrests, the legal proceedings that took place and the court judgement which resulted in sentences of five years' imprisonment for both Mr. Qasem and Mr. Said Issa. [See, for example, 93rd Report, Cases Nos. 409 and 457 (Bolivia), para. 230.]
Once in possession of this information, the Committee will be in a position to reach a decision in this case.
The Committee's recommendations
856.
In these circumstances the Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
the Committee notes the contradictory nature of the complainant's allegations and the Government's reply concerning the arrest of two trade union leaders in April 1984 and February 1985 respectively;
it recalls that it is incumbent upon the Government to show that the measures taken were in no way occasioned by the trade union activities of the individuals concerned;
(b)
given the lack of information concerning the reasons for the arrest and subsequent sentencing to five years' imprisonment of the trade union leaders concerned, the Committee requests the Government to submit further and as precise information as possible on the incidents which led to the arrests and a copy of the judgement handed down in the subsequent proceedings, so as to enable it to reach a decision in this case.
Geneva, 7 November 1985.
Roberto Ago, 				Chairman.
242nd REPORT
INTRODUCTION
1.
The Committee on Freedom of Association, set up by the Governing Body at its 117th Session (November 1951), met at the International Labour Office, Geneva, on 1, 2, 4 and 7 November 1985 under the chairmanship of Mr. Roberto Ago, former Chairman of the Governing Body.
2.
The Committee had before it various complaints of infringements of trade union rights in Turkey presented by a number of trade union organisations (Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029), as well as a representation concerning the non-observance by Turkey of the Right of Association (Agriculture) Convention, 1921 (No. 11), and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98), made by the General Confederation of Trade Unions of Norway under article 24 of the Constitution of the ILO.
3.
At its 230th Session (May-June 1985) the Governing Body adopted the interim conclusions on Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029 submitted to it by the Committee in its 240th Report.
4.
Since then, the Government sent its observations in four communications dated 19 September and 5, 18 and 23 October 1985.

Cases Nos. 997, 999 and 1029
COMPLAINTS PRESENTED BY THE WORLD CONFEDERATION OF LABOUR, THE WORLD FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS, THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS AND SEVERAL OTHER TRADE UNION ORGANISATIONS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY REPRESENTATION SUBMITTED BY THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF NORWEGIAN TRADE UNIONS UNDER ARTICLE 24 OF THE CONSTITUTION, CONCERNING NON-OBSERVANCE OF THE RIGHT OF ASSOCIATION (AGRICULTURE) CONVENTION, 1921 (NO. 11), AND THE RIGHT TO ORGANISE AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CONVENTION, 1949 (NO. 98) BY TURKEY
5.
The Committee has been examining these cases since February 1981 and has submitted 12 interim reports thereon to the Governing See page 1, footnote 1. Body, the last one being submitted in May-June 1985 [see 240th Report of the Committee, approved by the Governing Body at its 230th Session, May-June l985].
6.
Further allegations were contained in a communication dated 26 June 1985 from the World Federation of Trade Unions and 29 July 1985 from the Automotive Production, Assembly, Iron, Machinery and Metal Goods Workers' Union of Turkey (Otomobil-Is).
7.
Further information was received from the Government in communications dated 19 September 5, 18 and 23 October 1985.
8.
Turkey has not ratified the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87);
it has ratified the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
A.
Previous examination of the cases
9.
When the Committee last examined these cases in May 1985, it had received a communication from the Government which dealt in detail with the following matters:  the martial law situation, including the lifting of the state of siege in various parts of the country, and the lifting of restrictions on the right to strike and lock-out thereunder;  the trials of trade unionists, including those of the leaders of the DISK and its affiliates;  the position relating to five of the DISK accused who were in custody;  the question of the treatment of prisoners while in custody;  a statutory prohibition (in terms of transitional section 5 of Act No. 2821) on the resumption by trade union leaders of their activities while they are on trial;   the conservation and preservation of the assets of the trade union organisations, including DISK, which had been suspended;  opportunities for re-employment of trade unionists who had been detained;  and matters concerning the legislation on trade unions, collective bargaining, strikes and lock-outs (Acts Nos. 2821 and 2822).
10.
The Committee also had before it further information communicated by the World Federation of Trade Unions concerning the number of persons on trial and facing a possible death sentence, as well as two new trials which were alleged to have been instituted in January 1985 involving officials of the Progressive Metalworkers' Union (Dev-Mad-Sen) and the Movie Industry Employees' Union (Sine-Sen).
11.
In these circumstances, the Committee made the following recommendations to the Governing Body:
(a)
The Committee expresses its appreciation for the way in which the Government of Turkey has provided detailed observations on the matters raised in the previous report on these cases, as well as for the co-operation which the Government has continued to exhibit in response to the concerns of the Committee.
(b)
The Committee notes that martial law is still in force in at least one-third of the provinces of Turkey (in the form of either a state of siege or a state of emergency).
Recalling the principle that the existence of martial law is incompatible with the exercise of trade union rights, the Committee hopes that further developments will take place without the limitations arising from martial law.
The Committee, accordingly, trusts that martial law will soon be lifted in those provinces where it is still in force.
(c)
As regards the allegations received concerning the commencement of two new trials in January 1985 involving leaders of the Progressive Metalworkers' Union and the Movie Industry Employees' Union, the Committee requests the Government to supply information concerning this matter.
(d)
Regarding the trial of the leaders of the DISK and its affiliates, the Committee notes with concern that these proceedings are now in their fourth year and feels obliged to observe that so long a period might in itself give rise to suffering on the part of the accused persons and their families, whatever the outcome of the proceedings.
(e)
The Committee expresses the hope that every effort will be made to bring the trials of the DISK leaders to a speedy end and that the Government will provide more specific information concerning the five accused in the DISK trial who are still in detention.
(f)
The Committee expresses the hope that the Government will keep it informed of the outcome of the appointment of a multi-party commission by the Turkish National Assembly to investigate prison conditions and that it will provide it with the text of any report produced by the commission.
(g)
The Committee reiterates its previous recommendation strongly urging the Government to repeal transitional section 5 of Act No. 2821 on trade unions, which has had the effect of prohibiting the DISK leaders from resuming or participating in trade union activities and has thus deprived them over a long period not only of their rights as trade union leaders but also of their means of livelihood.
(h)
The Committee notes that the information concerning the assets of the DISK and its affiliates does not specify the date(s) in respect of which this information is provided, and accordingly requests the Government to let it have the relevant figures for each of the years since the assets were placed under trusteeship.
The Committee again expresses the wish that steps will be taken to restore the assets of the DISK and its affiliates to the organisations as soon as their suspension has been lifted.
(i)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of developments regarding the introduction of amendments to Act No. 2821 on trade unions and Act No. 2822 on collective bargaining, strikes and lock-outs, particularly in so far as these relate to the determination of the most representative union for collective bargaining purposes and any limitations which might be placed on the right of workers' organisations to participate freely in the process of collective bargaining;
it trusts that the introduction of such measures will result in a greater degree of conformity with the principles of freedom of association and free collective bargaining, and that any new legislation will take full account of the comments previously made by the Committee and by the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations;
it again draws this aspect of the cases to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations.
B.
Additional allegations
12.
In its communication of 26 June 1985, the WFTU alleges (1) that a statement by the Prime Minister of Turkey contained in an interview published on 8-9 June 1985 in the International Herald Tribune violated decisions concerning freedom of association as well as section 138 of the Turkish Constitution in claiming that the DISK, while posing as a social-democrat organisation, had been financed by communists, thus influencing the proceedings at present before the courts;  and (2) the enactment of new legislation on 16 June conferring additional repressive powers on the police which affect trade union rights and democratic freedoms by giving power to the administrative authorities and the police to suspend and/or close down trade union offices.
13.
In a communication dated 29 July 1985, Otomobil-Is (the Automotive Production, Assembly, Iron, Steel, Machinery and Metal Goods Workers' Union of Turkey) alleges the infringement of the exercise of trade union rights through the refusal by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security to accord it a certificate of competence for the purposes of collective bargaining in terms of Act No. 2822 on collective bargaining, strikes and lock-outs, in particular through a Decree of 9 July 1985 extending the operation of a collective agreement at the Eregli Iron and Steel Factory (ERDEMIR).
14.
Otomobil-Is states that official statistics published as recently as 17 July 1985 show that it is the second largest union in the metal products industry and that it is one of five independent unions representing at least 10 per cent of insured workers in a given branch of activity;
that the requirement concerning representation of at least 10 per cent of the workers in a given branch of activity is contrary to free trade unionism, is anti-democratic and is to the disadvantage of trade unions which, like it, lack good relations with those exercising political power;
that it represents a majority of the workers of ERDEMIR;  and that the Extension Decree reflects this hostile attitude on the part of the Government while also leaving thousands of workers at ERDEMIR who are its members unorganised.
C.
The Government's replies
15.
In its communication of 19 September 1985, the Government, after again expressing its satisfaction that the Committee had recognised the spirit of co-operation it had displayed, provided further information relating to the states of siege.
It pointed out that these could be proclaimed only for a period not exceeding six months, and that decisions relating to their proclamation, prolongation, shortening or lifting were required to be submitted to the Parliament for approval.
It also stated that the state of siege had been lifted in a further six provinces (including Ankara and Izmir) on 19 July 1985, so that it applied now to only 17 provinces of the total of 67 in Turkey.
The reply went on to state again that it was the policy of the Government to proceed progressively with the lifting of states of siege to the extent that circumstances permit and, adding once more information to the effect that the requirement of permission for strikes and lock-outs had been lifted since November 1984.
16.
As regards the allegations relating to further trials said to have been commenced in January 1985, the Government stated that the trial of the Movie Industry Employees' Union (Sine-Sen) had been instituted at the end of 1983 by the martial law prosecutor of Istanbul on a charge of breaching section 141 of the Penal Code by conducting illegal activities with the object of establishing the hegemony of one social class over another, under cover of the trade union.
17.
On the subject of the DISK trial(s), the Government indicated that these were at the stage where evidence was being examined and would shortly be entering the phase during which supplementary information would be considered;
and that, as previously stated, there was no way in which a trial could be prolonged once the set procedures had been completed.
18.
On the subject of the five trade unionists still in detention, the Government provided the following information:
Mustafa Aktulgali and Ozcan Kesgeç (of the Turkish Workers' Party) had been sentenced to eight years' imprisonment for contravention of article 141 of the Turkish Penal Code;
Mustafa Orhan was still on trial for contravening various articles of the Penal Code as a member of an illegal organisation (THKP-C/Kurtulus);
Mustafa Karadayi and Kamil Deriner's files had been referred to the Assize Court at Ankara on 21 May 1985, after the martial law court had been found incompetent to deal with the charge of smuggling which they faced.
19.
The parliamentary committee whose establishment, for the purpose of inquiring into conditions in civil and military prisons, had been notified to the Committee by the Government previously, has, the Government states, recently decided to extend its programme of visits to include police stations and places of detention.
The Committee's request for a copy of the report of the parliamentary committee had been passed on to the President of the Council, and the outcome would be communicated to the Committee in due course.
20.
After restating information to the effect that no trade unionist in Turkey had been put on trial for legal trade union activities and that the Constitution forbids any interference with the course of justice, the Government goes on to indicate the origin and basis for transitional section 5 of Act No. 2821 as being articles 13 and 52 of the Constitution;
and states that should the accused persons be acquitted they may resume their trade union activities.
It refers to the fact that the MISK leaders who were also accused of crimes against the State and who were acquitted thereof today enjoy all the trade union rights recognised under the Turkish Constitution and laws.
21.
Concerning the assets of the DISK and its affiliates, the Government provides figures relating to the liquid and other assets of each of 41 trade union organisations listed in its communication, which together total approximately TL7. 75 billion (or approximately US$15 million).
It states that if the judgement of the courts permit the re-establishment of the trade union on trial, the assets will be returned to them by the curators who at present have the responsibility for conserving and preserving them.
22.
In its reply of 23 October 1985, the Government states that the passages from the Prime Minister's interview in the International Herald Tribune cited by the WFTU deliberately omitted a sentence at the end which read:
"But this is for the courts to decide", and again states that courts and judges cannot receive instructions from any organ, office, agency or individual.
23.
After describing the objects of the laws on industrial relations and collective bargaining as well as reaffirming its attachment to international labour standards, the reply of the Government also indicates that there is regular co-operation between the Government and employers' and workers' organisations and that the continuing work on the formulation of amendments to Acts Nos. 2821 and 2822 takes account of the views of these organisations and of the universities.
24.
Concerning the allegation by the WFTU regarding the introduction of new powers for the police in terms of legislation enacted in June 1985, the Government, in its communication of 23 October, states that the pre-existing law (Act No. 2559, dating from 1934) was inadequate to deal with developments over the last 50 years.
It confirms that the new law, Act No. 3233 of 16 June 1985, refers in section 8E to the premises of trade unions as among those which may be closed down or withdrawn from use after more than one written warning by the police where they are not being operated in accordance with their stated purpose.
It adds that the new law retains safeguards which were in the previous legislation (the requirement that the police should act on the basis of evidence;  that they should act on the instructions of the highest local administrative authority, i.e. governors and district governors;  and that, if the reasons for the police action could give rise to legal proceedings, the judicial authorities must be informed immediately), while introducing the following additional elements:  reducing the time for which premises can be closed down in circumstances involving legal proceedings from an unlimited period to a maximum of three months;  guaranteeing the right of appeal to the Council of State at any stage of administrative and judicial proceedings related to action by the police in terms of the provision.
25.
In its communication of 18 October 1985 relating to the allegations of Otomobil-Is, the Government explains that the collective agreement was extended by decree in order not to deprive the workers at ERDEMIR of its benefits and to avoid the unfortunate effects which this might have on productivity in an enterprise of considerable importance within the national economy.
This had become necessary because it had become clear that none of the three unions which are engaged in activities at ERDEMIR (i.e., Celik-Is, Otomobil-Is and Turk Metal) could obtain the required majority at the place of work, since, in terms of sections 22 and 25 of Act No. 2821 on trade unions, new members of one union could only be acquired as a result of resignations from either of the other two;  and that even if this were to occur, the process would take considerable time.
The Government also indicates that at the time of their respective applications for certificates of competence, both Celik-Is and Otomobil-Is were adjudged to have less than the required number of members at the workplace (1,053 out of 7,693 in the case of the former, and 1,687 out of 7,888 for the latter);
and that these judgements had been confirmed on appeal by the Labour Court of Zongulak in both instances and, so far as Otomobil-Is is concerned, also by the Court of Cassation.
D.
The conclusions of the Committee
26.
The Committee notes the detailed information supplied by the Government in response to the recommendations it made in its previous report.
It feels bound, however, to observe that although developments are to be noted in regard to some of the matters on which it has made recommendations, it is a matter of regret that it is still necessary to address a significant number of the issues with which the cases have been concerned over a period of nearly five years.
The process of arriving at conclusions on some of the outstanding problems might be aided if additional new information were available, especially as regards a number of specific matters to which attention has been directed.
27.
The Committee notes with interest that the Government has taken further steps to lift the state of siege in a number of provinces.
It notes, however, that martial law still operates in this form in 17 of Turkey's 67 provinces. It once again expresses the firm hope that steps will be taken to remove martial law completely since its continued existence is, in the opinion of the Committee, incompatible with the exercise of trade union rights.
28.
The Committee is also of the view that the continuation of the trial of the leaders of the DISK and its affiliates remains a matter for disquiet, and it expresses the hope that every effort will be made to bring it to a speedy end.
29.
As regards those trade unionists who are in detention, the Committee notes that the trial of two of these has been referred from a military to a civil court, and requests the Government to keep it informed of developments in these proceedings so that it may satisfy itself that the offences with which they are charged do not relate to the trade union activities of these persons.
Similarly, it requests the Government to supply it with copies of the judgements in respect of the other three persons who have received sentences of imprisonment for the purpose of arriving at a conclusion on their cases in full possession of all relevant information.
30.
The Committee takes note of the Government's statement that no new trial was instituted in January 1985 in respect of leaders of the Movie Industry Employees' Union, but that this was in fact commenced at the end of 1983.
It trusts that it will be kept informed of developments in this respect, as in the case of other trials involving trade unionists and trade union leaders.
At the same time the Committee notes that no reference was made in the reply of the Government to allegations concerning the trial of 16 leaders of the Progressive Metalworkers' Union (Dev-Maden-Is), and requests the Government to supply it with information on this matter.
31.
The Committee notes with interest that the parliamentary committee of inquiry into conditions in civil and military prisons is extending its investigations to cover police stations and other places of detention under the supervision of the police;
it expresses the hope that the Government will make available to it a copy of the report presented on these and other aspects of allegations relating to the torture and ill-treatment of prisoners.
32.
The Committee remains of the view that the prohibition contained in transitional section 5 of Act No. 2821 involves an infringement of freedom of association by depriving trade unionists and trade union leaders of the right to participate in trade union activities while they are on trial and in the absence of conviction of any offence.
It expresses the hope that the necessary steps will be aken to repeal the provision and to ensure that the trade unionists and trade union leaders involved will be able to enjoy all the rights to which they are entitled in accordance with the principles of freedom of association.
33.
The Committee notes the information provided by the Government concerning the assets of the DISK and its affiliates.
In this regard it must point out that, although this contains more detail as to the position of individual unions, it still does not indicate a basis on which an assessment can be made as to the extent to which the assets have been preserved, as no comparative figures are given for the dates on which possession was taken by the curators or in respect of subsequent years.
Compared with information made available to the Committee by the Government at the time of its last report, the totals of the sums involved as referred to in the information provided in its communication of 19 September 1985 indicate that there may have been a substantial diminution in the value of the assets.
The Committee must, in the circumstances, urge the Government to supply it with complete and comprehensive information on the position so that it may reach a conclusion on this aspect of the case in full possession of all the relevant facts.
34.
The Committee takes note of the allegation concerning statements by the Prime Minister which might influence the proceedings of the court and of the information provided by the Government to the effect that this was qualified by specific mention of the fact that it was for the courts to decide on the matters referred to, as well as its affirmation that courts and judges may not receive orders and instructions from any organ, office, agency or individual.
In the circumstances, it is of the view that this question does not require further examination.
35.
On the subject of the allegations concerning the powers accorded to the police in terms of Act No. 3233, the Committee takes note of the information supplied by the Government.
At the same time it notes that no specific allegations have been made concerning the use of these powers against trade unions or trade union premises.
The Committee nevertheless expresses the hope that they will not be so used or otherwise employed in a manner which would involve an infringement of the principles of freedom of association.
36.
The Committee takes note of the Government's explanation of the reasons for the refusal of a certificate of competence to Otomobil-Is in terms of Act No. 2822 on collective bargaining, strikes and lock-outs.
It also notes, however, that the legislative provisions restricting recognition to unions which have a minimum of 50 per cent of workers in a bargaining unit have been the subject of criticism by the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, which pointed out that if there is no union covering more than 50 per cent of the workers, collective bargaining rights should be granted to all the unions in a particular unit, at least on behalf of their own members.
The Committee therefore once again draws the legislative aspect of the case to the attention of the Committee of Experts.
37.
The Committee notes from the reply of the Government that the process of formulating amendments to Acts Nos. 2821 and 2822 on industrial relations and collective bargaining is still continuing and trusts that in this regard account will be taken of the previous comments made by the Committee on these matters.
It requests the Government to keep it informed of developments in this regard, and draws the matter to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations.
The Committee's recommendations
38.
The Committee recommends the Governing Body to approve this interim report and, in particular, the following conclusions:
(a)
The Committee notes the information supplied by the Government in response to its previous recommendations;
it expresses regret, however, that it is still necessary to address a significant number of the issues with which the cases have been concerned over a period of nearly five years.
(b)
The Comittee notes with interest that the Government has taken further measures to lift the state of siege in a number of provinces and expresses the firm hope that steps will be taken to remove martial law completely since its continued existence is, in its opinion, incompatible with the exercise of trade union rights.
(c)
The Committee is also of the view that the continuation of the trial of the leaders of the DISK and its affiliates remains a matter for disquiet and expresses the hope that every effort will be made to bring it to a speedy end.
(d)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of developments concerning the proceedings against two of the trade union leaders under detention whose trial has been transferred from a military to a civil court so that it may be satisfied that the offences with which they are charged do not relate to the trade union activities of those persons.
(e)
The Committee also requests the Government to supply it with copies of the judgements in respect of the other three trade unionists who have been sentenced to periods of imprisonment, for the purpose of arriving at a conclusion on their cases in full possession of all relevant information.
(f)
The Committee requests the Government to supply it with information relating to the trial of 16 officials of the Progressive Metalworkers' Union (Dev-Maden-Is).
(g)
The Committee requests the Government to make available to it a copy of the report presented by the parliamentary committee of inquiry relating to conditions in civil and military prisons and other aspects of allegations relating to the torture and ill-treatment of prisoners.
(h)
The Committee urges the Government to supply it with complete and comprehensive information relating to the assets of the DISK and its affiliates, and in particular repeats its request that the relevant figures be made available in respect of each of the years since the assets were placed under trusteeship.
(i)
The Committee expresses the hope that the new powers accorded to the police in terms of Act No. 3233 of 16 June 1985 will not be used against trade unions or trade union premises or in any other way which would involve an infringement of the principles of freedom of association.
(j)
The Committee expresses the hope that the necessary steps will be taken to repeal transitional section 5 of Act No. 2821 and to ensure that the trade unionists and trade union leaders who have been deprived of the right to participate in trade union activities while they are on trial and who have not been convicted of any offence are thereby afforded the rights to which they are entitled in accordance with the principles of freedom of association.
(k)
The Committee requests the Government to keep it informed of developments concerning the formulation of amendments to Acts Nos. 2821 and 2822 and trusts that, in this regard, account will be taken of the previous comments made by the Committee on these matters.
It draws this aspect of the cases to the attention of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations.
Geneva, 7 November 1985.
Roberto Ago, Chairman.
GB. 231/10/14 231st Session Geneva, 11-15 November 1985 Tenth item on the agenda TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY-SECOND REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Contents Paragraphs
UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL
A/48/1
10 September 1993

ORIGINAL:
ENGLISH
Forty-eighth session
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON THE         WORK OF THE ORGANIZATION*
September 1993
__________         *       This is an advance version of the report of the         Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, which will be         issued in printed form as Official Records of the General         Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/48/1). 93-43614 (E)   160993   /...
CONTENTS
Paragraphs
Page
I.
INTRODUCTION
  1 - 28
4
II.
COORDINATING A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY
  29 - 116
8
A.
Organs of the United Nations
         29 - 101
8
B.
Interim offices
         102 - 106
20
C.
Ensuring an adequate financial base
         107 - 114
20
D.
Preparing for the fiftieth anniversary
         115 - 116
22
III.
DEVELOPING THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY
  117 - 275
28
A.
Global development activities
         121 - 158
28
B.
Operational activities for development
         159 - 203
35
C.
Regional development activities
         204 - 249
43
D.
Protection of human rights
         250 - 275
50
IV.
EXPANDING PREVENTIVE DIPLOMACY, HUMANITARIAN          ASSISTANCE AND CONFLICT RESOLUTION
  276 -         509
56
A.
Implementing an Agenda for Peace
         276 - 278
56
B.
Preventive diplomacy
         279 - 291
57
C.
Peace-keeping in a changing context
         292 - 307
59
D.
New departures in peace operations
         308 - 408
61
E.
Major comprehensive efforts
         409 - 455
80
F.
Post-conflict peace-building
         456 - 470
87
G.
Disarmament
         471 - 479
90
H.
The humanitarian imperative
         480 - 509
91
V.
CONCLUSION:
STRENGTHENING THE HUMAN FOUNDATION
  510 -   514
103

LIST OF FIGURES
1.
General Assembly:
number of resolutions adopted and agenda         items, 1989-1993
      23
2.
Security Council:
number of formal meetings, resolutions adopted         and statements by the President, 1988-1993
      24
3.
Security Council:
number of formal meetings and consultations of         the whole, 1988-1993
      25
CONTENTS (continued)                                                                           Page
4.
Estimated expenditures of the United Nations system by sector,         1992-1993, all sources of funds
      26
5.
Summary of contributions:  regular budget and peace-keeping,         as at 31 July 1993
      27
6.
Expenditures of funds and programmes administered by the United         Nations Development Programme, 1982-1992
      54
7.
Core resources of the United Nations Development Programme,         1982-1992
         55
8.
Map:  peace-keeping operations as at 31 July 1993
      98
9.
Civilian and military personnel in peace-keeping operations as         at 30 June 1993
      99
10.
Internationally and locally recruited staff in peace-keeping         missions
         100
11.
Total fatalities in peace-keeping operations since 1987
      101
12.
Civilian fatalities in peace-keeping missions since 1989
      102
I.
INTRODUCTION
1.
A year ago the United Nations, its Member States and the peoples of the world recognized that a new opportunity had presented itself.
The cold war being over, the United Nations could play the pivotal role in establishing world order and progress that had been assigned to it by the drafters of the Charter.
2.
The past 12 months leave no doubt that the opportunity has been grasped in a positive way.
The vast potential of the world Organization has been recognized and has begun to be employed in the establishment of a more stable world order:  as a strengthened voice for the poorest countries, as deliverer of humanitarian relief, as guardian of human and minority rights, as rescuer of States in crisis and as an instrument for repairing a damaged global environment.
In virtually every area, as the present report will show, there have been substantial achievements. But there have been serious set-backs and shortcomings as well.
This mixed record is to be expected in view of the comprehensive agenda that we are facing, both in quantitative terms and in the light of its complexity.
3.
Beyond the gains and losses inflicted by reality, however, troubling questions of will and purpose have been exposed.
The pattern of the past 12 months displays three realities:  the comprehensive nature of the global challenge, the indispensability of the United Nations and the gap that has been revealed as the demands of Member States on the Organization are not matched by the resources provided.
4.
The comprehensive reality is most clearly revealed through three objectives:  peace, development and democracy. They are interlocking and mutually reinforcing.
5.
In mid-1992, in my report entitled "An Agenda for Peace", I discussed the need to view efforts for peace as a continuum over time.
From preventive diplomacy to peacemaking and peace-keeping, to post-conflict peace-building, the cycle continues through perpetual rounds.
Increasingly we have learned that working for peace provides us with no place of rest.
6.
The past 12 months have demonstrated that peace operations involve interrelated functions.
United Nations operations in the field, most prominently in Cambodia, El Salvador, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia, have had to range far beyond the accepted notion and definition of peace-keeping.
Virtually every one of the departments and established functions of the United Nations may now be involved in operations for peace.
The second generation of peace-keeping is certain to involve not only military but also political, economic, social, humanitarian and environmental dimensions, all in need of a unified and integrated approach.
7.
Development is now understood to involve many dimensions;
it is no longer merely a matter of economic policy and resources.
Political, social, educational and environmental factors must be part of an integrated approach to development.
Without development on the widest scale, the young will be restless, resentful and unproductive.
People will fight for resources, and creativity will be misdirected.
8.
A new, workable and widely agreed concept of development still eludes us.
Until it is achieved, the United Nations will continue to face a sequence of conflicts.
9.
There can be no flowering of development without the parallel advance of another key concept:  democratization.
Peace is a prerequisite to development; democracy is essential if development is to succeed over the long term.
10.
The real development of a State must be based on the participation of its population; that requires human rights and democracy.
To ensure such an achievement, democratization must not only take hold inside a State, but among States in the international community.
And democracy within States can be fully sustained over time only if it is linked to expanding democratization among States and at all levels of the international system.
11.
Without peace, there can be no development and there can be no democracy.
Without development, the basis for democracy will be lacking and societies will tend to fall into conflict.
And without democracy, no sustainable development can occur; without such development, peace cannot long be maintained.
12.
And so it has become evident that three great concepts and priorities are interlinked, and they must be addressed at every level of human society.
We can see in recent events the relationship between the individual, the State and the global society in which we all now participate.
In the course of the modern era one or another of these three has tended to be the primary focus, to the relative neglect of the others.
13.
At one time the individual was seen as having little need for State institutions.
At other times the State has been exalted as the supreme object of human effort and sacrifice.
And at still other times, the demise of the State has been predicted and an almost transcendental globalism has been promoted as the ultimate goal of life.
We are fortunate today to see before us, in the theatre of history, a more integrated vision.
The individual has been reaffirmed as the creative source of economic progress, political expression and artistic and intellectual achievement.
States and their sovereignty are increasingly recognized as indispensable building-blocks of international order and problem-solving.
Cooperative global integration is now an inescapable fact and requirement for all the world's peoples.
This is anything but utopian; it is an effort to address compelling problems by practical methods, to produce the cooperative community that can manage global change.
14.
The globalization now taking place requires a profoundly renewed concept of the State.
Between the isolated individual and the world there must be an intermediate element, an organized community that enables the individual to participate in the life of the world. This element is the State and its national sovereignty.
They respond to the need of all human beings for identification. In a world both impersonal and fragmented, such a need is greater than it ever has been in history.
15.
Individuals find identity in nations. And nations should find identity in universalism.
There is no international community if there are no nations. So the opposition between nationalism and globalization is to a large extent false.
16.
In Chapter I of the Charter of the United Nations the founders proclaimed the intention "to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights ... of peoples".
This is the foundation of a well-ordered internationalism.
National sovereignty is the art of rendering unequal power equal.
Without State sovereignty, the very instrument of international cooperation might be destroyed and international organization might itself become impossible.
States are not the only actors in the international arena; they must be part of regional associations and global organizations.
Together they provide the framework for collective security and cooperative progress.
17.
Thus from every angle of vision, chronological, practical, functional, conceptual, individual and institutional, we come to one conclusion:
humanity's project is now truly universal, and to cope with it we must fashion comprehensive and integral projects, policies and efforts.
18.
The character of the challenges and realities I have outlined here makes it clear that the world Organization - the United Nations - is indispensable.
Only the United Nations has the universal character, the global convening power and the extensive networks which cover virtually every international function in the service of all peoples.
19.
As I have prepared this annual report on the work of the Organization, I have tried to do so in a way that reflects the comprehensive approach the times require.
The sections proceed from the measures of coordination needed to strengthen the United Nations as an organization, to the development work of the Organization, to activities to strengthen societies against breakdown, to efforts to halt or contain conflict, to peace-keeping operations, and peacemaking efforts, to building for a stable future of peace.
In the new United Nations all these aspects must be coordinated to bring them into a coherent mission.
20.
I believe that this report provides a fair reflection of the work carried out by the various departments of the Secretariat and by other component parts of the United Nations system.
If the work carried out in the economic and social sectors appears to be less focused than the work of the Organization in the fields of peace and security, this is, in my view, an inevitable consequence of the proliferation of intergovernmental bodies and organizations in the economic and social sectors and the lack of an effective coordinating mechanism.
I invite further reflection on how that gap could be filled.
21.
It will be evident, from the detailed contents of each section of this report, that the reach of the international community at this time exceeds its grasp.
United Nations Forces increasingly find themselves thrust into areas of conflict where major Powers are not willing to venture themselves and are reluctant to make the hard choices posed by a new era of challenges to peace.
And the United Nations is struggling to keep a focus on development when the poorest countries no longer hold the same interest for the rich as they did in the previous decades of ideological competition.
22.
Yet, all too often, the eyes of the media are focused on some aspects of the Organization's work to the exclusion of others.
As presented in the media, the work of the United Nations appears to centre around the multiple tasks of peace-keeping operations to the near exclusion of other activities.
And as regards the media's concern with peace-keeping, the operations in Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina dominate reports.
One of the aims of this annual report is to correct this distorted view of the Organization's work.
Though activities for development may not be as glamorous as peace-keeping operations, they are just as important and, indeed, provide the foundations for global security and stability.
Nor are some peace-keeping operations more important than others.
The United Nations attaches equal importance to all conflicts.
23.
Global organizations, and especially the United Nations, are being called upon to do a growing share of the public's international work.
But it must always be remembered that the Member States are the motive and supporting force of the world Organization.
Clearly, the United Nations cannot resolve the major problems on the international agenda in the absence of the political will, sufficient support and continuing commitment which each particular endeavour requires.
24.
The achievements of the past year vastly outweigh the set-backs.
Common concern has become more evident and effectively expressed.
The readiness to rely upon the United Nations is heartening and gives reason for growing hope that the world Organization will fulfil its original purpose and, beyond that, prove able to adapt to the new challenges of this changing time in history.
It is my hope that this annual report, by examining each area of action with a careful eye, will help to reveal the areas which require far greater effort by the Member States and by the United Nations system itself.
25.
Thus while recent accomplishments deserve great credit, they do not provide a sense of true satisfaction.
The United Nations renaissance remains in question.
The international community stands at a turning-point.
There is an undeniable disparity between the vision and the reality.
This must be faced squarely by the States Members of the world Organization and the peoples they represent.
This report should serve as a stimulus to greater realism, engagement, effort and political creativity.
All are essential if the present turning-point is to lead to a successful next stage in shaping the common future.
26.
This is the longest report of the Secretary-General to the General Assembly on the work of the Organization in many years.
Yet it still does not do justice to the myriad activities undertaken by the United Nations in the course of the past year.
The necessary reform of the Organization's Secretariat has been added to the multiplication of tasks and the emergence of new functions demanded by the Member States.
This annual report attempts to reflect the activities of the United Nations in as factual and comprehensive a manner as possible, yet a detailed catalogue of our work would require a report two or three times the size. This report should therefore be seen as an attempt to indicate to the Member States the scope and size of the tasks faced by the Organization in the previous year.
In view of the growth in our responsibilities, a burden that we willingly accept, the annual report has grown in size and detail.
27.
My hope is that the report does justice to the men and women who have, in the course of the year, given their time and effort in the service of the United Nations.
The end of the cold war offers a valuable opportunity to revitalize the international civil service.
In this connection, the General Assembly may wish to consider whether some personnel rules should be revised and whether the conditions of service should be improved to attract the best qualified candidates, particularly at the senior level, to serve in the Organization.
I would like to see a system that rewards achievement while insisting on accountability for inadequate performance.
28.
By presenting a comprehensive overview of the work of the United Nations, I wish also to underscore the competence, dedication and industry of the staff of the Organization, who have continued to give of their best while their workload has increased substantially.
I pay tribute to the men and women who strive to tackle some of the world's most intractable problems with energy and creativity, sometimes paying with their lives, and who seek to bring the world closer to the promise of our Charter.
"To be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends".
Charter of the United Nations, Article 1, paragraph 4
II.
COORDINATING A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY
A.
Organs of the United Nations
29.
The world is being changed by powerful forces that no State, or even group of States, has the capacity to manage by itself.
The United Nations, as an Organization, is therefore embarking on a programme of far-reaching reform to enable it truly to become the instrument of world peace and development which its founders envisioned half a century ago.
No organ of the United Nations can fail to be affected by this far-reaching reform process.
1.
General Assembly
30.
The General Assembly is playing an increasingly practical role in world activities.
Its workload has remained consistently heavy over the past four sessions, with expanding activities in some areas.
The total number of meetings held by the Assembly, its General Committee and Main Committees each year from the forty-fourth to the forty-seventh sessions has remained fairly constant:  436, 412, 418 and 420, respectively.
However, the number of meetings held by working groups of the plenary and of the Main Committees during the same period showed a sharp increase. During the forty-fourth session, working groups met 52 times; during the forty-seventh session, they met 77 times.
The number of informal meetings held by the Main Committees grew in even more dramatic proportions:  from 193 during the forty-fourth session to 313 during the forty-seventh session.
31.
Although the number of resolutions adopted by the General Assembly during this period decreased, resolutions were increasingly adopted without a vote or by consensus.
During the forty-seventh session, out of 295 resolutions, 75 per cent were adopted without a vote; by comparison, during the forty-fourth session, out of 336 resolutions, only 65 per cent were adopted without a vote (see figure 1).
32.
The expanding role of the United Nations in the area of peace-keeping was reflected in the activities of the General Assembly.
The number of agenda items dealing with the financing of peace-keeping and other field operations more than doubled between the forty-fourth and the forty-seventh sessions, from 6 to 14.
33.
From the forty-fourth to the forty-seventh sessions, the participation of Heads of State and Government in the general debates of the General Assembly increased from 14 to 21 per cent.
During that same period, the number of Members of the United Nations increased from 159 to 184.
34.
During the main part of its forty-seventh session, the General Assembly considered a wide variety of issues.
The resolutions adopted concerned, inter alia, the convening of an international peace conference on Somalia, specific actions regarding the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and follow-up action to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development.
The Assembly commended the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, which has thus far been signed by 148 Member States.
The General Assembly requested Member States to submit their views on a possible review of the membership of the Security Council.
The Assembly also decided, as a first step in rationalizing its work, to reduce its Main Committees from seven to six.
35.
The work of the General Assembly could be further streamlined.
It should be noted that many resolutions, particularly but not exclusively those affecting the economic and social areas, do not address policy issues, but are in the nature of work programme decisions (taking note of a report and requesting the Secretary-General to prepare another report).
I suggest that in the interests of efficiency the resolution format be reserved for General Assembly actions that address policy matters and formulate recommendations for action by Member States and the international community.
A simpler format could then be adopted for work-programme decisions in the economic and social areas.
This system would also bring some order of priority to the agenda of the General Assembly.
The agenda is also in need of some rationalization.
For example, nine items on the agenda of the forty-seventh session were not discussed at all.
36.
I should also like to suggest that, in view of the thousands of documents produced at the United Nations each year, Member States carefully review the need for every report.
There are many documents requested by the General Assembly on a recurrent basis that add little or no useful information to the report of the previous year.
2.
Security Council
37.
In response to the new challenges to international peace and security that have come in the wake of the cold war, the Security Council has informally developed new working patterns even as calls have come for changes in its formal structure.
In effect - in contrast to years past when sessions were clearly delineated in time and topic - the Council has found itself meeting almost continuously.
During the period from 1 January 1992 to 31 August 1993, the Security Council held 359 sessions of consultations of the whole, totalling some 428 hours.
In addition, the Council held 247 formal meetings, adopted 137 resolutions and issued 144 statements by the President (see figures 2 and 3).
What has emerged is a pattern of operations akin to that of a task force dealing with situations as they arise, on an almost continuing basis.
38.
As a result of these changes, the Security Council is now able to follow more closely, and in a more consistent manner than before, the variety of security threats around the world.
But new problems have arisen too.
It has become clear that immediate operations dealing urgently with crises around the world need to be supported by a more comprehensive understanding of the array of current challenges.
I therefore favour the proposal that periodic sessions of the Council be held at the ministerial level.
Informal consultations should be punctuated by more formal meetings in order both to inform, and to seek support from, the wider circle of Member States.
And communications with other elements of the world Organization should be improved.
39.
The Security Council is in the process of rationalizing its documentation and other procedures, while making its workings more transparent.
In this regard, I welcome the decisions to make available to all Member States the tentative forecast of the programme of work of the Security Council for each month, and also to review the list of matters of which the Council is seized with a view to rationalizing it.
40.
Pursuant to the request by the General Assembly in resolution 47/62 of 11 December 1992, I invited Member States to submit written comments on a possible review of the membership of the Security Council.
Proposals warranting serious study are now on the table.
The question of the Security Council's membership structure is of crucial importance, and I look forward to the issue being resolved by the time of the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization.
3.
Economic and Social Council
41.
The Economic and Social Council is perhaps the organ of the United Nations that received the least attention during the years of the cold war.
With economic and social development firmly set as goals in their own right, but also viewed as necessary preconditions for lasting global peace and security, it seems clear that the Council must receive greater attention.
42.
In my address to the Economic and Social Council at the high-level segment of its substantive session of 1993, at Geneva on 30 June, I stressed once again the importance of the Council.
I also repeated a proposal that I first made last year:  the Council should be invited to provide to the Security Council reports on situations in the economic and social areas which, in its opinion, constitute threats to international peace and security. I also recalled my suggestion that the Council introduce a flexible, high-level intersessional mechanism to respond in a timely way to new developments.
I noted that these proposals had not received serious attention.
I take this opportunity to reiterate them.
43.
Following discussions during the high-level segment of the substantive session of 1992 of the Economic and Social Council, an ad hoc working group of the Council on enhancing international cooperation for development:  the role of the United Nations was established by the President of the Council. Its aim was to complete consultations before the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly and thus to maintain the momentum of the discussions held during the high-level segment.
I made available to the Assembly the position papers submitted by delegations or groups of delegations to the ad hoc working group, as well as a compendium of position papers prepared by the secretariat of the Economic and Social Council.
44.
At the forty-seventh session, the President of the General Assembly established a second open-ended ad hoc working group of the plenary on agenda item 47 (Restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields) to continue discussions.
The working group held meetings over a period of several months.
Negotiations covered a number of significant issues, including the membership and composition of executive boards of United Nations programmes and funds and the financing of operational activities for development. The results of the group's work were officially presented to the President of the Assembly at a plenary meeting on 25 June 1993, immediately before the substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council.
I am sorry to have to report that the negotiations stalled, and that no action was taken at the meeting.
45.
At the substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council some progress was made towards reorienting the Council's work to the coordination of the United Nations system.
At the high-level segment discussions devoted to the World Summit for Social Development, the contribution of the United Nations system to social development received considerable attention.
Concern was expressed that the system should both be unified and function coherently.
A number of participants expressed disappointment at the stalling of the talks aimed at restructuring the Economic and Social Council.
46.
I remain hopeful that the efforts and good will of Member States in pursuing the revitalization of the Economic and Social Council and the streamlining of the responsibilities of the General Assembly and the Council will come to fruition.
This is a window of opportunity for the world community, a chance that may not recur.
The process of revitalizing the work of the United Nations in the economic and social fields, must be put back on track.
I appeal to Member States to do all they can to that end.
47.
In the aftermath of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro from 3 to 14 June 1992, it has become clear that Agenda 21 is the first international agreement expressing a global consensus and a political commitment at the highest levels to action on population, environment and economic advance, encompassed in a programme of sustainable development.
The Conference challenged Governments to adopt long-term policies on matters of the environment and sustainable development that affect human well-being and survival.
It further tested the willingness of nations to cooperate in developing global strategies for the sustainable use of resources.
48.
Following the Rio de Janeiro Conference, all United Nations agencies and bodies were required to contribute to system-wide efforts for the realization of sustainable development, and to support Governments in translating sustainable development policy into action.
Agenda 21 was endorsed by the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session.
49.
The Commission on Sustainable Development held its first substantive session at Headquarters from 14 to 25 June 1993.
Interest in the Commission has been amply demonstrated by the active way in which Governments have sought election to membership of the Commission, by the number of ministers who attended the high-level segment of its first session and by the approximately 700 non-governmental organizations that have obtained accreditation to it.
The session clearly revealed the strong determination of all parties involved, despite unfavourable prevailing economic and financial circumstances, to carry out the commitments made at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development.
50.
This positive tone was echoed in the support expressed at the meeting of the Heads of Government of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "Tokyo Summit") in July 1993, both for the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development and for the other processes recommended by the Rio de Janeiro Conference.
51.
A new Inter-Agency Committee on Sustainable Development has been formed to ensure effective cooperation following the Rio de Janeiro Conference.
The governing bodies of the various agencies and programmes have taken steps to reflect the decisions of the Conference in their work.
52.
The High-level Advisory Board on Sustainable Development provides advice to the Secretary-General and, through him, to the Commission on Sustainable Development and other relevant United Nations bodies.
I have appointed its 21 members and expect the Board to hold its first meeting in September, just prior to the opening of the General Assembly.
The follow-up work to the Rio de Janeiro Conference is discussed in section III of the present report.
4.
Trusteeship Council
53.
The Trusteeship Council, in accordance with Article 86 of the Charter, is composed of five Member States (China, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America).
Under the terms of Articles 83 and 87 of the Charter, the function of the Trusteeship Council is to assist the Security Council or the General Assembly in carrying out their responsibilities with respect to the International Trusteeship System.
For more than 45 years, the Council has fulfilled its responsibilities, reviewing the situation in and dispatching regular visiting missions to Trust Territories.
This year, Palau remains the only entity under the Trusteeship Agreement of 1947.
54.
At its sixtieth session in May 1993, the Trusteeship Council noted that the leadership of Palau wishes to end the trusteeship at an early date and had therefore decided to hold a plebiscite - the eighth - on the Compact of Free Association with the United States of America.
The plebiscite, originally scheduled for July 1993, was postponed and is now scheduled, by Executive Order of the President of Palau, to take place on 9 November 1993.
5.
International Court of Justice
55.
The International Court of Justice at The Hague, one of the principal organs of the United Nations under Article 7 of the Charter and, in accordance with Article 92, the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, has, in the past few years, experienced a clear increase in contentious cases as opposed to advisory opinions.
In 1993, the Court had before it a record number of 12 cases, involving States from nearly every region of the world.
56.
In the reporting period, judgement has been given in two cases, and in a third case an Order indicating provisional measures of protection has been made in record time, and hearings have been held on the merits of two other cases. Voluminous written pleadings have been filed within the prescribed time-limits in the other cases.
57.
In September 1992, a Chamber of the Court, after considering some of the most extensive pleading, both written and oral, ever presented by Parties, gave Judgment in the case Land, Island and Maritime Frontier Dispute (El Salvador/Honduras:  Nicaragua intervening), in which the complex and varied issues in dispute would have amply justified up to eight separate cases.
In its Judgment the Chamber drew the boundary line for each of six disputed sectors of the land boundary.
It also decided on the legal situation of the islands in the Gulf of Fonseca, the legal rights to the waters of the Gulf of Fonseca, the waters outside the Gulf and the effect of the Judgment for the intervening State, Nicaragua.
58.
The full Court, at the end of March and beginning of April 1993, dealt with Bosnia and Herzegovina's request for the indication of provisional measures of protection at the same time that Bosnia and Herzegovina instituted proceedings against Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in the case Application of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (Bosnia and Herzegovina v. Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)).
59.
As soon as possible after receiving the request and turning down a request for postponement, the Court held a hearing at which both Parties presented their observations.
One week later, on 8 April 1993, the Court issued its Order, in which it called upon the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) "immediately [to] take all measures within its power to prevent commission of the crime of genocide". The Court also ordered that both Parties should ensure that no action is taken which might "aggravate or extend the existing dispute over the prevention or punishment of the crime of genocide, or render it more difficult of solution".
In a further Order, the President of the Court fixed time-limits for the subsequent written procedure on the merits.
60.
The Court in late August 1993 held hearings on a second request from Bosnia and Herzegovina and a request from Yugoslavia for the indication of provisional measures in the same case.
61.
Hearings in the case Maritime Delimitation in the Area between Greenland and Jan Mayen (Denmark v. Norway) were held in January 1993.
The Court delivered a Judgment on the merits on 14 June 1993, in which it observed that the continental shelf and fishery zones are two separate and conceptually distinct zones for delimitation purposes.
It noted, however, that the task for the Court, under the law applicable to the delimitation of either zone, is to achieve an "equitable solution".
The Court, in its Judgment, divided the area of the overlapping claims into three zones and drew the delimitation line in each of these zones.
62.
The day of the reading of the Judgment in this case was also the opening day of the hearings in the case Territorial Dispute (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya/Chad), which the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Chad have presented to the Court by virtue of a special agreement.
After five weeks of hearings, the Court is at present deliberating its decision in that case.
63.
New cases have kept the docket crowded.
Cases on the Court's list during 1993, other than those referred to above, are:
(a)
Aerial Incident of 3 July 1988 (Islamic Republic of Iran         v. United States of America).
(b)
Certain Phosphate Lands in Nauru (Nauru v. Australia).
(c)
East Timor (Portugal v. Australia).
(d)
Maritime Delimitation between Guinea-Bissau and         Senegal.
(e)
Maritime Delimitation and Territorial Questions between         Qatar and Bahrain.
(f)
Questions of Interpretation and Application of the 1971         Montreal Convention arising from the Aerial Incident at         Lockerbie (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya v. United Kingdom).
(g)
Questions of Interpretation and Application of the 1971         Montreal Convention arising from the Aerial Incident at         Lockerbie (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya v. United States of America).
(h)
Oil Platforms (Islamic Republic of Iran v. United States         of America).
(i)
Gabcikovo-Nagyamaros Project (Hungary/Slovakia).
64.
The incidence of cases of considerable political as well as legal importance shows that the Court exists not only to settle questions of law, but is also an integral part of United Nations peace efforts.
Seen in this context, the contentious and advisory jurisdictions of the Court are seen to be complementary.
It is the role of the Court as an important component of the peacemaking apparatus of the United Nations as a whole that moved me to recommend, in "An Agenda for Peace", that the Secretary-General might be authorized to take advantage of the advisory competence of the Court.
65.
Under article 26, paragraph 1, of the Statute of the International Court of  Justice, a seven-member Chamber for Environmental Matters has been established.
The members of the Chamber were elected by secret ballot to serve for an initial term of six months as at 6 August 1993.
66.
There is at present a tendency to proliferate the number of international tribunals:
for example, there are proposals for various regional tribunals, and for tribunals to deal with environmental disputes, with human rights issues and with the law of the sea.
It should be borne in mind that an essential feature of international law is that it is a single and universal system.
Accordingly, if specialized tribunals are to be created, it may be necessary to establish a common system for referrals of questions of law to the principal judicial organ of the United Nations.
6.
Secretariat
67.
The Secretariat will continue to address the challenge of strengthening the Organization's ability to manage the 29 peace-keeping and other field missions.
Action has already been taken to establish a clearer definition of the respective responsibilities of the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of Peace-keeping Operations with regard to these operations.
The continuing effort during the coming year will involve enhancing planning activities through greater coordination among departments, improving budgetary planning and financial operations, invigorating structures for audit, investigation and programme evaluation, introducing a comprehensive staffing plan and ensuring the security and safety of staff in the field.
Efforts will be made to develop more standardized, systematic, expeditious and cost-effective means of planning, launching, managing and terminating peace-keeping operations in a changing environment.
68.
Significant improvements have been made by the introduction of new computerized systems for field-related budget processing, accounting, procurement and inventory control; the enhanced delegation of administrative authority to the missions; the development of an integrated support service in the field to facilitate the interfacing of military and civilian components; and the establishment of new procedures for the staffing of field missions and field-related training.
69.
Given the extraordinary demands placed on the system by the large number of requests for the United Nations to establish and maintain peacemaking and peace-keeping operations, and given the importance of deploying to the field experienced United Nations staff for key administrative positions in general administration, personnel, finance and procurement, the current shortage of experienced senior administrators familiar with United Nations policies and procedures available for assignment to these field missions will be addressed as a matter of priority.
70.
I paid a tribute, in my introduction to this annual report, to the staff of the United Nations.
No attempt to restructure the Secretariat will succeed unless it takes into account its most important asset, the staff.
I am increasingly impressed by the dedication and professionalism of the Secretariat staff.
In this period of expansion and restructuring, the commitment of staff members to the ideals of the United Nations, their willingness to work long hours under difficult conditions of service, and their flexibility to adapt to a variety of new conditions allow us to continue the day-to-day work of the Organization.
71.
In the course of the year, more than 1,200 members of the staff - both Professional and General Service employees - have volunteered to serve on United Nations peace missions. Such missions frequently entail a high degree of danger and stress.
Many of the functions previously carried out by these staff members have had to be borne by employees remaining at Headquarters, who thus have had to carry an even greater burden.
I take this opportunity to restate my commitment to the improvement of conditions of service for all of our staff members, particularly with respect to personal security, salaries and career development opportunities.
72.
Whether assigned to field missions or to other mandated programmes, the staff must be given the tools to make this an efficient and modern Organization.
I am determined that training, which has been neglected in the past (when compared to other international organizations or national services), be given the place it deserves in management. The proposed programme budget for the next biennium reflects this concern.
A comprehensive programme of management training, designed to develop leadership and managerial capacity within the Secretariat, has been launched with a series of management seminars for all director-level staff which will later be extended to other management levels.
73.
Improving and updating the skills of the Organization's staff is a significant step. Attracting talented and qualified candidates to join the Organization is another means of ensuring that it will be able to respond to the challenges of the 1990s.
Although regular long-term recruitment has been suspended owing to the requirements of restructuring and streamlining, national competitive examinations have provided an excellent tool for selecting the best talent available in a given country for junior Professional positions.
Nineteen countries will be asked to provide candidates for these examinations in 1993, compared with 12 in 1992.
The filling of posts earmarked for these examinations has been exempted from the temporary suspension of recruitment.
74.
I intend to seek to improve the geographical distribution of posts and also to secure an input of fresh talent into the Organization.
These are important considerations in the efficient management of the human resources of the United Nations.
Equally important, we must ensure that men and women can serve in conditions of equality.
75.
A major effort is under way to advance the standing of women in the Organization, especially in senior-level positions.
Although it is recognized that this is a long-term process, the policy is already producing tangible results.
Guidelines on sexual harassment were issued during the past year as an important part of this general effort.
It is also necessary to develop honourable and fair procedures to terminate the services of those staff members whose performance has failed to fulfil the promise of earlier years.
76.
To train staff, to promote equality between men and women, and to select top-quality candidates from Member States are three key components of my efforts to increase the efficiency of the Organization.
Yet if the conditions of service do not remain competitive, the Organization will lose some of its best elements.
77.
During 1993, it became clear from work carried out by the Administrative Committee on Coordination that conditions of service of the United Nations are steadily deteriorating. They are losing their competitiveness in outside labour markets and vis-à-vis other international organizations.
The General Assembly itself acknowledged that salary levels in a number of other international organizations outside the common system are higher than those of the United Nations.
It is paradoxical that this should be happening at a time when many new demands are being placed on United Nations staff.
At the request of the Committee, this concern is being brought to the attention of Member States and the International Civil Service Commission (ICSC).
I have therefore decided to study with the Committee and ICSC ways to make compensation and conditions of service competitive.
I hope that, as a result of these studies, the Administrative Committee on Coordination and ICSC will present specific recommendations to improve the conditions of service of the United Nations staff by the time of the next substantive consideration of these issues at the forty-ninth session of the General Assembly in 1994.
78.
In this context, I must again stress the importance of a genuinely integrated, geographically balanced, independent international civil service of the highest calibre providing Member States with effective and integrated support.
As part of my efforts to reinvigorate the international civil service, to preserve the integrity and independence of the staff, and to enhance career opportunities, I have been studying a new approach to higher echelon appointments.
Taking into account the views of Member States as reflected in General Assembly resolution 47/212 B, I intend to make proposals about the senior structure of the Organization during the forty-eighth session of the Assembly in the context of my submission on high-level posts in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1994-1995.
79.
In conjunction with streamlining in the administrative area, internal controls and audit mechanisms have been strengthened in 1993 as requested by Member States in different forums.
Improvements involve better documentation of internal controls, follow-up on audit recommendations, whether external or internal, review of the staffing of the Division responsible for internal audits, and better planning of audit coverage.
Improved internal controls will bring greater managerial accountability, which is crucial for more efficient organization.
80.
In August 1993 I announced the creation of a new post of Assistant Secretary-General for Inspections and Investigations. The incumbent will head an independent Office for Inspections and Investigations that will incorporate various units dealing with audit, management advisory services, evaluation and monitoring, currently within the Department of Administration and Management.
The new Assistant Secretary-General will report directly to me and will work closely with the Under-Secretary-General for Administration and Management.
This appointment is the first step towards the establishment of a higher level post with broader audit, evaluation and investigation authority.
81.
With the implementation of the Integrated Management Information System (IMIS), greater monitoring and audit capabilities will be available through electronic audit trails than ever before.
IMIS is a major step in standardizing and rationalizing the management process in the Organization across duty stations.
The Organization will be able, for the first time, to have access to timely, up-to-date and comprehensive information on its resources and their utilization.
The use of IMIS by other programmes and organizations in the United Nations system could also promote greater transparency and compatibility of information across organizations, leading to standardization in administrative matters.
82.
The heightened role of the United Nations as a focus for multilateral international dialogue has intensified the demand for conference services in the Secretariat.
The enhanced activity of the Security Council and its subsidiary bodies, the establishment of a number of new intergovernmental or expert organs, and the increasing practice of holding formal meetings and informal consultations concurrently led to an increase of over 10 per cent in conference-servicing workloads in 1992 and to even higher projections for 1993.
Despite the provisions of General Assembly resolution 41/213 of 19 December 1986 on limiting conference activities, the number of meetings, both those scheduled in the approved calendar of conferences and those unforeseen, has continued to increase.
83.
To the extent possible, the challenge has been met with measures to enhance productivity in conference services, mainly through the introduction of more advanced technology and coordination with substantive secretariats.
The need to contain conference-servicing costs has, however, caused some interpretation and documentation services to be curtailed.
84.
Reliance on automation to increase individual productivity is not limited to conference services.
Most areas of the Secretariat are undergoing significant changes in this respect.
There is greater reliance on a global network of computers and telecommunications that are being upgraded.
85.
Together with the reform of management practice, steps are being taken to enhance the effectiveness of the economic and social sectors of the Organization.
In my statement to the General Assembly on 2 November 1992, at the opening of the debate on the follow-up to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, I spoke of the need to rebuild "a unity of purpose for the economic, social and environmental sectors of the Organization" as one of the key objectives of my efforts.
86.
In furtherance of that objective, my aim has been to define the functions of the various parts of the Organization and to determine how those functions can most effectively be carried out by the Organization itself and within the United Nations system of specialized agencies and institutions.
The core of my managerial strategy has been to secure a more rational distribution of responsibilities between Headquarters and the United Nations centres at Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna, as well as among global, regional and field structures.
This should provide a clearer sense of purpose for each of the United Nations programmes and sharpen the substantive focus of each of the centres.
Clear lines of responsibility in a simpler structure, together with steps to eliminate duplication and overlapping, will greatly improve coordination.
87.
Two broad principles govern my approach to the distribution of responsibilities between Headquarters and other parts of the economic and social structures of the Organization.
The first is that responsibility for each sector or set of issues coming within the purview of the United Nations should, to the extent possible, be clearly assigned to, and the necessary critical mass for dealing with them concentrated in, a single unit or entity within the Secretariat, without duplication and as part of an organization-wide strategy.
The second, related, requirement, is that the provision of substantive support for central intergovernmental bodies should be regarded as a priority activity for all economic, social and environmental entities of the United Nations in their respective sectors, coordinated from Headquarters.
Conversely, Headquarters capacities on cross-sectoral issues should be placed at the disposal, and help to orient the deliberations, not only of the central intergovernmental organs, but also of the governing and other intergovernmental bodies in each of the entities away from Headquarters.
88.
In proceeding to the second phase of restructuring on the basis of these guidelines, I took careful account of the experience gained in the first phase, which I initiated shortly after taking office early in 1992.
A key element of that phase was the establishment in New York of a single Department of Economic and Social Development.
I saw this as a first step, in order to create new synergies among the three pillars of Headquarters work:
system-wide coordination and policy guidance, research, analysis and studies on important global economic and social issues, and technical cooperation activities in developing countries.
This initial phase of the restructuring would prepare the ground for a second phase encompassing all of the economic and social sectors of the Organization.
89.
The process of restructuring the work, and often the offices, of over 1,000 people employed in the economic and social fields at Headquarters placed considerable demands on the staff.
In the face of these challenges, the consolidated Department of Economic and Social Development was nevertheless able to bring about fruitful synergies between the operational staff on the one hand, and the research and analysis staff on the other, bringing fresh perspectives and new energy to a number of areas of work.
90.
In the light of this experience, and taking into account the work of a high-level panel of advisers and discussions in the General Assembly, I took steps in December 1992 that constitute a second phase of the reform effort in the economic and social sectors of the United Nations.
These steps entailed the creation of three new departments focusing, respectively, on policy coordination and sustainable development, economic and social information and policy analysis, and development support and management services.
91.
As a result, the balance at Headquarters between Secretariat structures in the political, humanitarian, economic and social fields has improved.
Organizational units now have clear and distinct terms of reference and clear lines of responsibility, and services to central intergovernmental bodies have been improved and integrated.
In addition, there is now a greater capacity in terms of data and statistical support for national as well as international policy-making, and technical cooperation is more focused.
92.
The redeployment to New York, in the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development, of the relevant functions and activities of the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs at Vienna and the World Food Council secretariat in Rome should enhance the capacity of the United Nations for coherent policy development and provide more effective and better coordinated substantive support to central intergovernmental bodies.
Overall, these measures will result in a more integrated approach to development.
93.
The dispersion of different aspects of United Nations activities in the closely interrelated areas of trade, finance, investment, technology and services inevitably diluted the impact of these activities.
The consolidation of these activities in the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development will eliminate these overlaps and create a broader base for enhancing the quality of substantive support provided to the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations and the Commission on Science and Technology for Development, as well as to the Trade and Development Board and its subsidiary bodies.
In addition, the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) and the United Nations Environment Programme located at the United Nations Office at Nairobi have been placed under common management.
This will facilitate synergies among the two programmes and result in some savings.
94.
In 1993, the United Nations Office at Geneva has had to address and resolve a twin problem of substance and structure.
A key priority has been to improve the management of the Office and its responsiveness to new demands, particularly in United Nations operational activities.
Within the United Nations Office at Vienna, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme is responsible for confronting the crucial problems of crime and drugs.
The United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, also within the United Nations Office at Vienna, has concentrated on direct support of Governments through technical cooperation activities and training.
I take this opportunity to restate my commitment to maintaining Vienna as one of the principal United Nations centres.
95.
The Administrative Committee on Coordination plays a crucial role in providing a sense of unity of purpose for the United Nations system as a whole. I have therefore paid particular attention to that Committee, of which I am Chairman.
A thorough review of the workings of the Committee and its subsidiary structure was undertaken this year.
96.
In the first instance, the functioning of the Administrative Committee on Coordination was reviewed and a series of guidelines agreed upon.
I intend to submit to the Committee for discussion any programme or proposal, of a general or system-wide nature, whose significance or content seem to me to require prior consultation with the agencies concerned and their subsequent cooperation in follow-up and implementation.
I shall keep the Economic and Social Council fully apprised of the outcome of these consultations.
97.
The executive heads, as members of the Administrative Committee on Coordination, for their part undertook to carry out the necessary consultations within the framework of the Committee when launching, on their own initiative, any operation - such as the organization of an international or world conference on a subject that involves the mandates and interests of a number of United Nations organizations - the implementation of which will require contributions by several or all of the members of the Committee.
They also agreed to inform their deliberative organs of major impending initiatives within the United Nations system of particular relevance to their organizations or in which their organizations are expected to participate.
98.
The complexity of the subsidiary structures of the Administrative Committee on Coordination has been greatly reduced.
The new structures of the Committee are centred around two consultative committees - the Consultative Committee on Administrative Questions and the Consultative Committee on Programme and Operational Questions - and on the new Inter-Agency Committee on Sustainable Development.
The new structures will provide a forum in which policy issues affecting system-wide aspects of the management of human and financial resources can be discussed in a coordinated fashion.
They will also allow closer interaction between policies and operations.
They reflect the importance of the concept of sustainable development as an integrating framework for the activities of the system.
99.
I am convinced that the commitments I have outlined, together with the new spirit prevailing in the Administrative Committee on Coordination and the specific reforms which have been introduced, will greatly enhance inter-agency cooperation in support of development.
100.
At the same time, I must remind Member States that they, too, have a responsibility to help to improve coordination within the system.
These responsibilities must be exercised at two levels.
First, at the level of the central intergovernmental bodies within the United Nations itself, Member States must develop system-wide strategies and policies and provide effective guidelines for the work of the secretariats represented in the Administrative Committee on Coordination.
My earlier remarks on the reform of the Economic and Social Council are relevant in this context.
101.
Second, Member States must take coherent and consistent positions in the governing bodies of the various organizations.
One glaring example of their failure to do so hitherto is the persistence of differences in the conditions of service adopted by Member States for the international staff serving in the Bretton Woods institutions on the one hand, and the rest of the system on the other.
Further examples of divergent policy directives exist throughout the spectrum of substantive and operational issues before the various governing bodies.
The Administrative Committee on Coordination stands ready to do its part to help to overcome these differences and to adopt mutually reinforcing policy stances throughout the system.
B.
Interim offices
102.
I undertook in my last annual report to focus attention on activities in the field and to bring greater unity to the United Nations presence at the country level.
I have established interim offices in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan.
My aim has been the creation of an integrated approach to the provision of the services that the United Nations system can offer, and the coordination of inter-agency activities in response to the requirements of Member States.
Consultations on the establishment of integrated offices are currently under way in Cambodia, Eritrea and the Russian Federation.
103.
These measures are intended to facilitate access to the United Nations system for Member States, especially newly independent States and other States in transition, that wish to seek its assistance in various areas of activity.
They are also intended to improve the capacity of the United Nations to respond appropriately to the specific socio-economic, environmental, political and humanitarian requirements of such countries.
104.
The interim offices have already begun to play an effective role in responding to the needs of their host Governments, both in development activities and in supporting the transition process that these countries are undergoing.
The interim offices have facilitated the Organization's humanitarian and emergency relief activities.
In those countries where I have been given a mandate to help to resolve actual or potential conflicts, the interim offices have been of great value as a channel of communication with the Government concerned and as an instrument for the dissemination of information about the United Nations.
105.
In all these activities, the interim offices have succeeded in strengthening the image of the United Nations as an integrated system whose component parts are able to work together, in support of host Governments, in response to the special and urgent requirements of countries in transition.
This has been achieved with the full cooperation and assistance of the funds, programmes and offices of the United Nations system.
The Administrative Committee on Coordination has welcomed my decision to work for a more unified field presence.
The representatives of some of the specialized agencies, which are not yet taking part in these arrangements, have indicated a wish to be associated with them.
106.
In devising a new model for United Nations representation in those countries, it is not my intention to disturb or replace existing mechanisms for coordination.
On the contrary, the intention is to build on what has already been achieved. I intend to apply to other countries, as needed, the approach that is evolving in the countries where interim offices have been established.
My aim is to develop a more effective, unified United Nations presence at the country level.
C.
Ensuring an adequate financial base
107.
The conjunction of the persistent difficulties of a number of Member States in meeting their financial obligations and the unprecedented level of expenditures for mandated activities (see figure 4) is expected to cause major financial difficulties for the Organization by the autumn of 1993.
108.
The unprecedented growth in the demand for the services of the United Nations has stretched financial resources to the breaking-point.
In January 1993, assessed contributions payable by Member States amounted, in rounded figures, to $1.6 billion for the regular budget.
The cost of peace-keeping missions is expected to rise from $1.4 billion in 1992 to an estimated $3.6 billion by the end of 1993 (see figure 5).
109.
I must report with great concern and deep regret that, owing to the failure of many Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and on time, the cash flow situation, with regard both to the regular budget and to United Nations peace-keeping operations, remains critical.
As of 26 August 1993, only seven Member States had paid their assessed contributions to the regular budget and peace-keeping operations in full.
110.
If this pattern continues, the regular budget will need to borrow internally from other funds as from September 1993.
Several peace-keeping operations have experienced severe cash shortages.
In order to be able to respond to the needs of these operations, temporary advances have had to be made from the Peace-keeping Reserve Fund which was established by the General Assembly in resolution 47/217 of 23 December 1992.
In order to meet its various other obligations, including the payment of salaries, the Organization had to resort to a variety of short-term measures such as borrowing from funds having available cash.
111.
The proposed programme budget for the biennium 1994-1995 will be considered by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
It proposes a modest growth of 1 per cent in the level of resources, primarily in the areas of preventive diplomacy, peace operations, peace-building, human rights and the coordination of humanitarian assistance.
This programme budget reflects the interest of Member States in strengthening these activities.
It is my hope that all Member States will reach broad agreement and adopt this programme budget by consensus as they have done in the last several bienniums.
112.
On 2 August 1993, with total cash reserves sufficient for less than two months of operations, I decided to send an urgent letter to the Heads of State and Government of Security Council members and of all Member States with outstanding contributions, outlining the gravity of the financial situation. I stated that the financial situation was so precarious that it threatened the capacity of the Organization to finance new undertakings, and that even existing operations would be in jeopardy.
On 26 August I told the Fifth Committee that the Organization's cash flow situation had become so serious that I had been compelled to take economy measures affecting conference services, including the servicing of the Security Council, the General Assembly and their committees and subsidiary bodies.
Specifically, I made it clear that it would not be possible for meetings to be serviced, except in emergencies, during the evening, at night or during weekends.
I also warned that, unless there was an improvement in the situation, further economy measures would have to follow.
113.
At my request, the Ford Foundation convened an independent international advisory group of experts in September 1992 to examine the financing of the United Nations, with a view to creating a secure financial base for the Organization over the long term.
The group met three times between September 1992 and January 1993 and published its report, entitled "Financing an Effective United Nations", in February 1993.
The report is comprehensive and contains many valuable recommendations.
I should like to take this opportunity of expressing my profound thanks and appreciation to the chairmen and members of the group for their work, and also to the Ford Foundation for sponsoring it.
I have sent the report to Member States and am also transmitting it to the General Assembly for consideration at its forty-eighth session.
114.
In spite of these unfavourable circumstances, indeed partly because of the strained cash situation, the Administration has pursued its efforts to enhance its productivity.
The increased productivity of the United Nations during the past year is reflected in the remainder of this report.
D.
Preparing for the fiftieth anniversary
115.
The Preparatory Committee for the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations, established by the General Assembly in decision 46/472 of 13 April 1992, held five meetings. Agreement was reached by consensus on a theme for the anniversary:
"We the peoples of the United Nations ... united for a better world".
The Preparatory Committee also established a working group to prepare a solemn declaration for the observance.
116.
To date, 13 Member States have notified me of the formation of national committees in support of this observance. I look forward to receiving confirmation from other Member States regarding their national committees.
The fiftieth anniversary secretariat has been coordinating anniversary preparations and programme development within the system, with the support of non-governmental organizations and other partners. I regard the anniversary as a major milestone to be marked not only by celebration, but by programmes of serious reflection, education and communication.
FIGURE 1         General Assembly:  number of resolutions adopted and         agenda items, 1989-1993 FIGURE 2         Security Council:  number of formal meetings, resolutions         adopted         and statements by the President, 1988-1993 FIGURE 3         Security Council:  number of formal meetings and         consultations of the whole, 1988-1993 FIGURE 4         Estimated expenditures of the United Nations system         by sector, 1992-1993, all sources of funds         (Millions of United States dollars) FIGURE 5         Summary of contributions:  regular budget and peace-keeping,         as at 31 July 1993
"To achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character ..."
Charter of the United Nations, Article 1, paragraph 3
III.
DEVELOPING THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY
117.
The gap between the world's richest and poorest countries is widening, yet that shocking fact is more often than not greeted by indifference.
The United Nations is the special voice of the world's poorest nations.
No task is greater or more urgent than to impress upon the economically leading nations that the world cannot ultimately prosper if the poorest continue to suffer and decline.
118.
The ideological contest of the cold war stimulated great super-Power interest in developing countries.
The reasons were not always admirable, but poor countries could benefit from that interest.
Today, we see that the world, in the wake of the cold war, recognizes the importance of competition; but the end of the cold war has ended the competition to bring development to the world.
119.
The message from the United Nations has been clear:
macroeconomic growth should not be pursued without due consideration for such aspects of human well-being as health, education, poverty levels, income levels and income distribution, and participation in the political process and in the market place.
In short, human development, in its social and economic dimensions, must be at the centre of all development efforts.
120.
I intend to set out the United Nations approach to development in full in "An agenda for development", a preliminary report which will be submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session.
An agenda for development will provide more than yet another development theory. As a practical document, it will set the guidelines for future United Nations action in the economic and social fields.
I look forward to a lively and fruitful discussion of the preliminary report during the forty-eighth session.
A.
Global development activities
1.
Secretariat departments at Headquarters
121.
The Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development provides substantive support for the central coordinating and policy-making functions vested in the Economic and Social Council in its high-level, coordination and operational activities segments and the Second and Third Committees of the General Assembly, the Commission on Sustainable Development, the Commission for Social Development, the Commission on the Status of Women and, pending the conclusion of the current intergovernmental review, the World Food Council.
The Department serves, at the expert level, the High-level Advisory Board on Sustainable Development and, at the inter-secretariat level, the Inter-Agency Committee on Sustainable Development and other subsidiary bodies of the Administrative Committee on Coordination dealing with both operational and programme questions.
The Department will coordinate the contributions of other Secretariat entities to the work of central intergovernmental bodies in the economic and social areas, but its aim is also to broaden the base and improve the quality of support by engaging all relevant parts of the economic and social sectors of the Organization.
122.
The Department will assist me in ensuring the successful implementation of Agenda 21 and other major documents adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development.
Considerable efforts will need to be made to ensure that sustainable development principles are adequately reflected in new or adjusted policies, in legislation, and in programme budgets and structures.
123.
The redeployment to this Department of the relevant functions and activities of the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs at Vienna and the World Food Council secretariat at Rome should enhance United Nations capacity for coherent policy development and provide more effective support for central intergovernmental bodies.
It should, in general, help to promote a more integrated approach to development.
124.
The Department, in addition to providing subject-specific policy reports, as required, for the relevant intergovernmental bodies, will assume primary responsibility for the preparation of an annual policy report of the Secretary-General focusing on a selected number of major policy issues calling for concerted international action.
That report will draw on, and be coordinated with, the work of the Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and other concerned entities.
125.
I have also asked the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development to take on responsibility for coordinating the preparations for the World Summit for Social Development, to be held at Copenhagen in 1995.
The Summit, which will coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of the Organization, is already the focus of much debate within the United Nations system, particularly within the Economic and Social Council.
Preparatory studies for the Summit are under way, on some of the major economic and social issues facing the international community. They include:
(a)
Poverty, and equity issues, both inter-State and         intra-State;
(b)
Unemployment, vulnerable groups and countries, and         patterns of economic exclusion;
(c)
Social security issues and safety nets;
(d)
Migration and patterns of human and economic movement.
126.
With respect to the advancement of women, my objective is to achieve a stronger and more unified programme.
The relocation of the Division for the Advancement of Women within the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development will place its activities in the mainstream of the economic and social work of the Organization, and should assist in integrating gender issues into every aspect of our work on development.
My proposal to merge the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) with the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) has been endorsed by the Economic and Social Council.
It should give greater coherence to the policy, research and operational aspects of United Nations efforts for the advancement of women.
127.
Taken together, these measures should help to focus preparations for the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held at Beijing in 1995.
Other preparatory work for that important global forum has involved support for national and regional preparations, the coordination of United Nations system participation, the involvement of non-governmental organizations, and efforts to heighten public awareness.
The Secretary-General of the Conference, Gertrude Mongella, has already conducted missions to several States Members of the United Nations to promote the goals and objectives of the Conference, and to seek support for it at all levels.
128.
The question of violence against women has continued to be of deep concern.
A major step forward was the drafting of the draft Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, which the Economic and Social Council, at its substantive session of 1993, urged the General Assembly to adopt.
It is hoped that this work will be brought to a successful conclusion at the forty-eighth session of the Assembly.
*  *  * 129.
The Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis has a central responsibility for maintaining and enhancing the quantitative information systems (population and statistics) of the United Nations.
In addition, the Department is charged with servicing the substantive needs of the international community in the fields of economic and social policy and research.
It thus provides the link between the various departments and organs at Headquarters and the regional commissions.
130.
The Department also serves as the lead unit for economic and social information within the United Nations and provides statistical support to all parts of the Organization.
In this regard, it will cooperate closely with the Bretton Woods institutions and other relevant organizations and will link its activities with the early-warning capabilities being developed in the political and humanitarian sectors of the Organization.
131.
Since its inception in February 1993, the Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis has concentrated on the development and implementation of the 1993 System of National Accounts and on providing a new impetus for the collection of statistics on the environment.
The Department has also undertaken considerable preparatory work for the International Conference on Population and Development, to be held at Cairo in September 1994, for which, together with the United Nations Population Fund, it is providing the secretariat.
In addition, two reports were made available to the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session of 1993, namely, the 1993 Report on the World Social Situation and the World Economic Survey, 1993. Those reports were the culmination of more than a year of intensive efforts.
Their basic structure and approach were worked out under the authority of the head of the former Department of Economic and Social Development.
132.
The Statistical Commission, and the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session of 1993, adopted the 1993 System of National Accounts, a basic tool for organizing and analysing economic statistics.
With the adoption of the 1993 System, an international consensus was reached on an up-to-date and near-universal language for economic dialogue among countries and groups of countries.
The adoption also marked the successful culmination of a 10-year effort by the Secretariat on the System of National Accounts, which was carried out in close collaboration with the regional commissions, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the European Community and many national experts.
133.
Fresh impetus was given to work on environmental statistics.
The development and implementation of integrated environmental and economic accounting will provide new tools for monitoring in this field.
Further pioneering work on gender statistics continued, with a second issue of The World's Women in preparation.
Priorities and an action plan were established from a global review of international statistical activities designed to improve international cooperation and statistical development with an enhanced regional dimension.
134.
The work of the Secretariat in population aims to facilitate the work of the Economic and Social Council, through the Population Commission, in the formulation of policy recommendations, in the delivery of technical assistance and cooperation and in the substantive coordination of the activities of the United Nations system in the field of population.
135.
The implications of the Single European Act for countries not members of the European Community, including the transitional economies and the developing countries, were explored in two issues of the Journal of Development Planning.
Another issue of the same journal was devoted to examining the implications for developing countries of the economic, political and social transformations in central and eastern Europe.
136.
Macroeconomic forecasts of the world economy for the period 1993-2001 and alternative policy simulations were prepared to serve as the basis for policy-oriented discussions at expert group meetings held at Ankara, Geneva and New York.
*  *  * 137.
The Department for Development Support and Management Services is designed to sharpen the focus of United Nations technical assistance and enhance its impact on the priority needs of developing countries and countries in transition.
The new Department's mandate is twofold.
On the one hand, it will act as an executing agency for programmes and projects relating to institutional and human resources development in areas such as development planning, policies and infrastructure, public administration, private sector development and enterprise management, financial management and accounting, and natural resources and energy planning and management.
On the other hand, the Department will be the focal point at United Nations Headquarters for the provision of management services and implementation functions for technical cooperation.
138.
With effect from 1 January 1994, the Department will incorporate, as a semi-autonomous entity, the Office for Project Services, currently located within the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). One consideration in making this change was the view, frequently voiced by Member States, that the current location of the Office within UNDP is incompatible with the primary purpose of UNDP as a central coordinating and funding mechanism.
The change should also increase cost-effectiveness and eliminate duplication in the delivery of technical cooperation services by the United Nations.
The incorporation of the Office for Project Services in the Secretariat also provides an opportunity for the redeployment, closer to the constituencies they are intended to serve, of relevant parts of the Organization's technical cooperation and advisory services.
139.
The Department for Development Support and Management Services has, since its creation in 1993, concentrated on the thematic and cross-sectoral aspects of its work.
Special attention has been paid by the Department to the integration of its activities with the Organization's work in peace-keeping and humanitarian affairs.
Ongoing activities in this area include support for election administration and reconstruction efforts in a number of countries, and work on the conversion of military infrastructure and industries to peaceful civilian use.
140.
The Department has taken part in the new UNDP support costs arrangements, and in discussions with the executing agencies and UNDP about how the system could be refined to make it more effective.
141.
The Department for Development Support and Management Services is also giving close attention to ensuring that it plays a dynamic role as an agent for technical cooperation, particularly in the context of national execution and the programme approach.
It has intensified its efforts in institution-building and human resource development, with particular attention to the strengthening of institutions in developing countries.
The Department is also implementing a multisectoral approach to technical cooperation and institution-building.
2.
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
142.
In the area of international trade, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has focused on issues related to national transparent mechanisms in the context of the fight against protectionism.
UNCTAD has also stressed the need for international support for the initiatives of developing countries, especially through improved market access and stronger financial flows.
The link between the decreasing real price of primary commodities and the environment has been addressed in Agenda 21. Depressed commodity prices lead to overproduction to maintain foreign exchange income, a process which often leads in turn to environmental deterioration.
143.
The concept of comprehensive development has had a major impact on the work of UNCTAD. Whereas in the past proceedings were usually geared to the adoption of resolutions and decisions, the reforms adopted at the eighth session of UNCTAD, in February 1992, have led to an increasing role for negotiations.
The pragmatic and non-confrontational approach implicit in those reforms has facilitated the search for convergence and consensus-building.
On the other hand, unless opportunities for trade and development are enhanced, tensions will build up and confrontational approaches will once again come to the fore.
144.
The Special Committee on Preferences conducted an extensive exchange of views on the implementation of the generalized system of preferences and agreed to undertake a policy review of the system in 1995.
Recent agreements reached by negotiations held under the auspices of UNCTAD include the International Sugar Agreement (March 1992), the Protocol extending the International Agreement on Olive Oil and Table Olives, 1986, with amendments (March 1993), and a new Convention on Maritime Liens and Mortgages (May 1993).
145.
UNCTAD has enhanced its capacity to address the new challenges and opportunities that have arisen for strengthening international cooperation for development.
Furthermore, with the imminent transfer to UNCTAD from United Nations Headquarters of programmes relating to transnational corporations and science and technology for development, the UNCTAD secretariat will be well placed, through improved programme delivery, to enable the concerned commissions of the Economic and Social Council, as well as the competent UNCTAD intergovernmental bodies, to discharge their respective mandates more effectively.
3.
United Nations Environment Programme
146.
The new leadership of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has the responsibility of transforming its programme in recognition of Agenda 21 priorities.
The seventeenth session of the Governing Council was held in May 1993.
That was the first intergovernmental meeting to discuss Agenda 21 since its endorsement by the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session, and it provided an opportunity for Governments to agree on programmes and priorities affecting both the developing and the developed countries.
147.
In supporting the implementation of Agenda 21, the Governing Council called upon the Executive Director to make every effort to strengthen, orient and adjust, as appropriate, the activities, programmes and medium-term plan of UNEP to help achieve the objectives of Agenda 21.
After receiving and reviewing in detail the UNEP programme for the bienniums 1992-1993 and 1994-1995, the Council noted that the programme would require further development to incorporate changes required by the Rio de Janeiro Conference.
The Governing Council reaffirmed that Agenda 21 must be implemented in close cooperation with the Commission on Sustainable Development, and requested the Executive Director to present to the Council at its next session her estimates of the costs to UNEP of the full implementation of those parts of Agenda 21 specifically recommended for the Programme's attention.
The Council stressed that high priority should be given to the needs of developing countries.
148.
UNEP provided technical cooperation in the field of environmental law and institutions to the Governments of 11 African, 10 Asian and Pacific and 3 Latin American and Caribbean countries.
That work was conducted in cooperation with UNDP, the World Bank and regional organizations.
In addition, national environmental plans and strategies were prepared in 14 developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Country studies on costs and benefits of environmental management and conservation of biodiversity were carried out in six countries with different biological profiles.
149.
The international environmental information system of UNEP now brings together a total of 155 participating countries. About 25,000 queries were answered in 1992.
The INFOTERRA International Directory contains over 6,000 sources of environmental information.
Equipment and training were provided to 30 developing countries.
The Global Resources Information Database (GRID) has now linked 30 affiliated centres around the world. This enables planners and scientists to access data, monitor trends and study the interactions between environmental variables using geographic information systems and data management computer techniques.
The Global Environmental Monitoring System (GEMS) set up a regional environmental information network to promote the exchange of environmental information in support of strategies for collective preventive or remedial action on environmental issues.
Regional surveys were conducted to identify environmental and natural resources information and information management requirements and activities in the African, Asian-Pacific and Latin American regions.
150.
UNEP provided assistance, through joint undertakings with the regional commissions and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, to seven countries for the formulation of national plans to combat desertification.
Support was also provided, jointly with other organizations, to establish networks and mechanisms for mobilizing action for the implementation of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification.
Through the UNEP/UNDP joint venture, the United Nations Sahelian Office continued to assist Sudano-Sahelian countries to implement the Plan of Action and to bring together additional financial and technical assistance from other bodies.
In addition, UNEP cooperated with regional and subregional organizations, such as the Southern Africa Development Community and the Arab League, to provide assistance through them to their member countries in the implementation of the Plan of Action.
151.
UNEP is cooperating closely with African Governments, non-governmental organizations and development agencies in the implementation of the programme of the Conference of African Ministers on the Environment, in the area of energy and food security, and on measures to strengthen environmental machineries, the formulation of environmental action plans and programmes, and environmental training and public awareness.
UNEP continues to emphasize in its outreach programme the topic of women and the environment.
152.
UNEP is providing support for 24 projects under the Action Plan for the Environment in Latin America and the Caribbean, including the initial financing of the secretariat, located at the UNEP regional office for Latin America and the Caribbean.
Those projects are being implemented in close association with Governments, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, regional offices of specialized agencies and other intergovernmental agencies and subregional organizations.
153.
UNEP is also working closely with its partners UNDP and the World Bank to increase efficiency in the implementation of the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
UNEP is strengthening its scientific inputs and servicing of the Science and Technology Advisory Panel. UNEP is also taking an active part in the evaluation of GEF-funded projects and in discussions on the administration, legal framework and management of the next phase of GEF.
154.
The range and variety of these programmes indicates the difficulty of acting coherently and comprehensively;
clearly the level of integration which we seek and which the times demand has not yet been attained. A substantial effort has, however, been made and progress over the past year has been evident.
4.
United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat)
155.
The global housing crisis, which affects hundreds of millions of families in both rural and urban settlements, and the social, economic and environmental impact of the unprecedented pace of urbanization in the developing regions provide the context of the work of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat).
156.
The main policy direction for the activities of the Centre derives from the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000, adopted by the General Assembly in December 1988.
It has also been incorporated into the human settlements programme of Agenda 21.
The Strategy encourages Governments to adopt policies that enable all the actors in the public and private sectors, including non-governmental organizations, community organizations and women's groups, to contribute to the process of improving shelter and human settlements conditions, and provide adequate mechanisms to monitor progress through quantitative and policy indicators.
157.
Similarly, the applied research and training activities of Habitat have focused on improving the capacity of Governments, especially at the local level, and low-income communities to face the challenges of human settlements management and development.
Equally important is the identification of low-cost and environmentally sound technological options for human settlements infrastructure and services.
Directly addressing the critical need to make an early contribution to the continuum of relief, rehabilitation and development activities of the United Nations system, Habitat has also played a notable role during the year in human settlements and rehabilitation efforts in Afghanistan and Cambodia.
158.
The decision by the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session to convene a second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) in 1996 is a clear recognition of the need for new concerted action by the international community to address the issues of environmentally sustainable human settlements development in a rapidly urbanizing world.
Habitat, which will provide the secretariat for the Conference, will have a major responsibility for the success of the Conference, in cooperation with Member States and the United Nations system.
B.
Operational activities for development
159.
Discussions on the reform of operational activities have been under way in the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council since 1989.
In 1992, in an important step forward, the General Assembly, in resolution 47/199, reaffirmed the need for reform in the field of development activities. It also stressed that development is a shared responsibility.
The Assembly urged developed countries to increase their official development assistance, and emphasized that recipient Governments had the primary responsibility for coordinating, on the basis of national strategies and priorities, all types of external assistance.
Resolution 47/199 also contained important guidelines on the role of the United Nations system in development.
The country strategy note, introduced by the resolution, offers a major opportunity for coordinating the response of the entire United Nations system to the priorities of developing country Governments.
The programme approach is another important feature of resolution 47/199, and will play a major role in securing logical and integrated donor responses to government development priorities at the sectoral and intersectoral levels.
Under resolution 47/199, the United Nations is required to assist Governments to achieve self-reliance in managing their economic and social development.
1.
Technical cooperation programmes of the United Nations                 Secretariat
160.
In 1992, the then Department of Economic and Social Development had 918 technical cooperation projects under execution, with a total delivery of $141 million, against current year budget provisions of $185 million.
The work programme of the Department consisted of giving advice and assistance to developing countries in national economic and social development planning, and providing expertise on energy policy, water resources projects, mineral resources, cartography, remote sensing and infrastructural work, public administration and finance, statistics, population policies, and transnational corporations, in addition to support services for other development agencies.
The Department also participated in programmes relevant to the notion that political progress and economic development are inseparable and must be pursued simultaneously.
161.
A large-scale effort to assist in the national election held in Angola, in September 1992, focused on the coordination of foreign assistance and on logistical support.
Other electoral missions were conducted in Albania, Ethiopia, Mali and Mozambique.
Missions were also fielded to provide advice and assistance in preparing elections in El Salvador, Lesotho, Rwanda and Uganda.
In this, the Department and, since December 1992, the Department for Development Support and Management Services, worked closely with the Electoral Assistance Unit in the Department of Political Affairs.
162.
The Department of Economic and Social Development, with the cooperation of the Beijing Commission for Science and Technology, organized at Beijing, in October 1992, a seminar on urban information systems and their application to developing countries.
The purpose of the seminar was to provide a forum for discussion and dissemination of current and improved techniques in this field.
163.
The Department provided secretariat services and technical background papers for the Sixth United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names.
In collaboration with the Earth Observation Satellite Company and the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, the Department organized a two-week seminar on photogrammetry and remote sensing, to benefit developing countries.
164.
I have followed with particularly close interest and concern the question of African development and the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 46/151, as updated by the System-wide Plan of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development.
The goals and activities of the New Agenda were central to the work programme of the Office of the Special Coordinator for Africa and the Least Developed Countries in 1992.
To advise and assist me in this work I appointed a panel of high-level personalities. I took part myself in meetings of the panel, at Geneva in December 1992 and at Rome in May 1993.
I am most grateful to the members of the panel for their valuable contribution, which is ongoing.
165.
The Department of Economic and Social Development organized, in cooperation with the INSTRAW, an interregional workshop on women's role in the environment and sustainable development in September 1992 at Beijing.
There were 120 participants and over 80 prototype project proposals were developed.
The workshop was perceived as providing a key link between the Rio de Janeiro Conference and the Fourth World Conference on Women, to be held in 1995.
The Department also organized, in cooperation with INSTRAW and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, a regional workshop on training modules on women, water supply and sanitation, which was held in Thailand in September 1992, following a similar one held in the Gambia in 1991.
The Department also responded to requests about developing national databases and reports for the 1995 Conference.
2.
United Nations Children's Fund
166.
In 1992, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) cooperated in programmes in over 130 countries.
In addition, UNICEF expanded its programmes of support to central and eastern Europe and the republics of the former Soviet Union as mandated by the Executive Board.
Programme expenditure totalled $744 million in 1992.
Of that amount, 31 per cent was spent on child health, including the expanded programme on immunization and oral rehydration therapy; 22 per cent on emergency programmes; 15 per cent on planning, advocacy and prime support; 11 per cent on water supply and sanitation; 10 per cent on education, including young child development; 7 per cent on community development, women's programmes and children in especially difficult circumstances; and 4 per cent on nutrition and household food security.
167.
Overall UNICEF expenditure for 1992 was dominated by emergency assistance, owing partially to the situations in Angola, Iraq, Mozambique, Somalia, the Sudan and the former Yugoslavia.
For the biennium 1992-1993, the estimated expenditure of UNICEF amounts to $1.8 billion.
It is forecast that the total annual income of UNICEF will exceed $1 billion by 1995. Expenditure on emergency relief is expected to decrease, with a corresponding increase in expenditure on the development aspects of the work of UNICEF, including child health and nutrition, water supply and sanitation, education, community development, children in especially difficult circumstances and women-centred programmes.
168.
The goals established by the international community for UNICEF include seven overarching goals and a number of supporting goals.
The overarching goals include reduction of infant mortality by one third or to 50 per 1,000 live births, whichever is the lower;
reduction of mortality among children under five years old by one third or to 70 per 1,000 live births;
reduction of the maternal mortality rate by half by the year 2000;
reduction of severe and moderate malnutrition among children under five by half by the year 2000;
universal access to safe drinking water and to sanitary means of excreta disposal;
universal access to basic education and completion of primary education by at least 80 per cent of children of primary school age by the year 2000;
reduction of the adult illiteracy rate (the appropriate age group to be determined in each country) to at least half its 1990 level, with an emphasis on female literacy;
and improved protection of children in especially difficult circumstances.
Among the supporting goals, key items include eradication of polio by the year 2000;
elimination of neonatal tetanus by 1995;
elimination of guinea-worm disease by the year 2000;
virtual elimination of iodine deficiency disorders and vitamin A deficiency;
and access by all pregnant women to basic maternal care.
169.
Since the World Summit for Children, some 142 countries have embarked on national programmes of action, often developed with UNICEF support.
The World Summit for Children captured the essence of UNICEF support and advocacy when it affirmed the principle of a "first call for children", which it defined as "a principle that the essential needs of children should be given high priority in the allocation of resources, in bad times as well as in good times, at national and international as well as at family levels".
This was a logical consequence of the mandates given to the Organization in relation to the goals for children and development and the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
170.
In June 1993, children addressed the World Conference on Human Rights at Vienna and demanded greater respect for the rights of children.
A number of national programmes of action have been drawn up by developed countries. They include activities for their own children, and commitments on assistance to children in developing countries.
In developing countries, the national programmes of action have outlined strategies and priorities for budget allocations and provided a framework for the mobilization and coordination of development assistance.
3.
United Nations Development Programme
171.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is the largest provider of grant assistance for technical cooperation in the United Nations system.
It serves over 170 developing countries and territories through its network of 124 field offices.
UNDP coordinates operational activities for development for the United Nations system as a whole and works closely with the regional commissions, the Secretariat and the specialized agencies, and with the Bretton Woods institutions.
At the country level, the head of each UNDP office is the Resident Representative, who is usually designated as the resident coordinator of the United Nations system's operational activities for development, and is also the local representative of several other United Nations organizations and programmes.
Work has continued on the integration of 18 United Nations information centres with UNDP field offices, in such a way as to preserve the functional autonomy of the centres.
172.
UNDP expenditure has increased considerably over the last 10 years (see figure 6).
Over the past five years, UNDP has funded programmes and projects valued at around $7 billion.
The resources of UNDP derive from voluntary contributions received from developed and developing countries alike.
Those external resources support national programmes in which the major share is allocated by the countries themselves.
In 1992, the largest share of spending was in Africa (39 per cent), followed by Asia and the Pacific (33 per cent), Latin America and the Caribbean (7 per cent), the Arab States (7 per cent) and Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States (2 per cent).
The remainder was spent on interregional and global programmes, for the support of national liberation movements, and in Caribbean and Pacific multi-island programmes.
In each region, some 87 per cent of UNDP resources went to least developed countries (those with a GNP per capita of less than $750 per year).
173.
The bulk of UNDP-funded activities fall within the framework of country programmes through which UNDP and the recipient Government spell out the strategy for using UNDP resources effectively.
Compared with earlier cycles, the country programmes approved for the fifth programming cycle are more focused on the priorities outlined in Governing Council decision 90/34, namely, poverty alleviation, management of development, environment and natural resources management, women in development, technical cooperation among developing countries and science and technology for development.
Also emphasized are HIV/AIDS, education for all, and private sector development.
UNDP is experienced in both long-term technical cooperation and emergency and transitional situations.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic is a major natural disaster of planetary scope, with particularly devastating consequences for developing countries.
Since 1987, UNDP has provided funds to some 30 countries for national HIV/AIDS-related programmes.
While continuing to show concern for those infected, UNDP, in close cooperation with the World Health Organization, has stressed the importance of preventive measures for combating the pandemic.
174.
In 1992 the number of projects aimed at fostering self-reliance through capacity-building for sustainable human development increased.
Those projects included guiding the development process to reach the poor and alleviate poverty;
protecting the environment and regenerating the resource base for future production;
designing workable strategies, action plans and policy reforms;
mobilizing financial resources, both public and private;
and managing the aid process to help countries make the most of limited concessional resources.
The aim of UNDP was to help countries develop economies that would achieve job-led growth and increase social equity and integration.
Increased attention to human development has led to a greater recognition of the importance of the political, social, cultural, environmental and institutional aspects of development previously overshadowed by the focus on economic factors.
There is now a growing acceptance that development cooperation must include measures to improve governance, judicial systems and social integration and other activities designed to remove obstacles to real participation. This was the theme of the Human Development Report 1993, which UNDP sponsored.
175.
Developing countries sought specific UNDP support to apply the human development concept in national strategies.
Since there is no blueprint for human development, each country has taken its own course, focusing on different issues and priorities.
In each case, commitment is critical, from Governments and non-governmental sectors alike.
Areas of concern for the national strategies have included the collection of data on development gaps and disparities, analysis, and building consensus between policy makers and representatives of civil society, particularly between non-governmental organizations and the private sector.
The aim is to offer multidisciplinary approaches to social justice in a sustainable manner.
176.
The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development gave UNDP a particular mandate to support countries in their efforts to build capacity to implement Agenda 21.
Together with the United Nations Environment Programme and the World Bank, UNDP manages the $1.3 billion Global Environment Facility (GEF), taking responsibility for capacity-building and targeted research projects, preinvestment activities, the GEF small grants programme for non-governmental organizations, and facilitating in-country coordination and dissemination of information.
177.
Development activities are now clearly seen as helping to establish the conditions for peace.
In the aftermath of conflict, developing countries are asking UNDP to assist them with the rehabilitation of war-torn areas, the return and resettlement of refugees and the demobilization and training of former soldiers.
To create conditions likely to maintain peace, countries seek UNDP support for programmes to build their capacities to reconstitute the social fabric and to ensure that people can meet their basic needs.
178.
At the same time, requests for assistance in fields relatively new for UNDP are being received as Governments seek to give people a say in the forces that shape their lives by increasing their participation in political processes.
Support is increasingly sought to improve abilities to conduct elections, bring about democratization and ensure legal protection and human rights.
In 1992 in Africa alone, UNDP contributed about $2 million to electoral assistance projects in eight countries that drew nearly $32 million in funds from the countries themselves and from bilateral donors.
Countries turned to UNDP for assistance in these sensitive areas, showing their confidence in the objectivity, neutrality and effectiveness of UNDP.
179.
UNDP has coordinated its activities with those of the multilateral financial institutions, including the Bretton Woods institutions and the regional development banks.
The comparative advantages of UNDP include its field-based organization constantly in touch with local realities, its delivery of technical cooperation for capacity-building, and its effective and extensive cooperation with the specialized agencies.
The collaboration includes joint activities at global and regional levels and the execution by multilateral financial institutions of UNDP-funded projects at interregional, regional and national levels.
180.
UNDP cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has focused on assisting developing countries to build their capacity for sound macroeconomic policy formulation and management and establishing necessary financial institutions.
For the most part, IMF has acted as executing agency for UNDP-funded projects. In addition, there have been joint training programmes in macroeconomic adjustment and the design of structural adjustment programmes.
181.
At the regional and global levels, many development issues require the mobilization of resources, expertise, research networks, forums for debate and media presentation on a massive scale.
UNDP has worked with the World Bank and the donor community in many areas of global concern, including the Global Environment Facility, the Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme, the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, the Urban Management Programme, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research and the Onchocerciasis Control Programme.
At the regional level, there are such joint activities as the African Capacity-building Initiative, the Social Dimensions of Adjustment and the National Long-term Perspective Studies.
182.
In "An Agenda for Peace", I highlighted the role of regional organizations in peacemaking and preventive diplomacy.
That role extends naturally across the spectrum of political, economic and social conflict.
Long-term growth and political stability are mutually interdependent. This is recognized by the United Nations system in its inter-agency programmes, and in the work of UNDP.
183.
UNDP cooperation with the African Development Bank covers a wide range of development issues, the Bank acting as executing agency for regional projects in such areas as support for women entrepreneurs, energy, and a feasibility study for the establishment of an African export-import bank.
During the fourth programming cycle, UNDP-financed projects executed by the Bank amounted to $6 million.
184.
UNDP cooperation with the Asian Development Bank covers almost all sectors, with particular focus on agriculture, forestry, fisheries, and natural resources.
UNDP-financed projects executed by the Bank during the fourth programming cycle amounted to $21 million.
The relationship is changing as a result of the growing trend towards national execution in the region, and as a result of the greater concentration of UNDP resources on fewer areas of activity.
185.
For Latin America and the Caribbean, UNDP and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have an agreement for cooperation and coordination that has led to successful co-financing and joint programming at the national level.
Since it is clear that a modern economy without a modern society will not be viable, one aim of such joint projects on human development and governance is to forestall conflict by supporting consensus-building and enhancing the responsiveness of government to civil society.
A joint methodology for human development and social reform has been developed, based on consensus-building and the formulation of responsible long-term public policy.
A new strategy for IDB lending to the social sector was debated at a major conference co-sponsored by UNDP and IDB, and was subsequently approved by the Bank's Governing Board.
186.
In the field of environment, IDB and UNDP helped the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean prepare a common agenda for the Rio de Janeiro Conference that was widely used in the discussions and negotiations.
Given the region's strong capacity for policy analysis and also given small indicative planning figures, the role of UNDP has also been to provide seed money and to support Governments in managing loans from multilateral financial institutions.
187.
At a time when UNDP is being required to address both ongoing and new priorities in a growing number of recipient countries, it is disturbing to report that, after several years of annual increases, contributions to UNDP in 1992 fell to $1,073 million and in 1993 to an estimated $930 million (see figure 7).
While I recognize that donor countries are under severe financial constraints, it is my hope that the levels of funding of UNDP will be restored, given the magnitude of the development challenge the world now faces.
4.
United Nations Population Fund
188.
The annual increase in the world's population reached a record level of 93 million.
Rapid rates of population growth place a strain on economic growth and hence on development.
Yet population growth can be greatly affected by development measures.
189.
The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) continues to promote the concept of family planning as a basic human right, based on the principle of informed and voluntary choice.
According to the World Health Organization, some 910,000 conceptions occur every day.
Half are unplanned. A quarter are unwanted.
Some 1,370 women die every day from causes related to pregnancy or childbirth, most of them in developing countries.
Thousands more nearly die.
Many themselves are children.
Many such tragic situations could be avoided if family planning and maternal health programmes were available.
190.
One encouraging development is that an increasing number of countries are now linking population issues to national development policies and priorities.
To support those countries, UNFPA took steps to enhance strategic programming, promoted the provision of requisite technical assistance, and supported national capacity-building for national execution and for coordination of population programme activities.
191.
In compliance with the requirements of General Assembly resolution 47/199, UNFPA strengthened its efforts to build national capacity to manage population programmes, with the aim of enabling countries to become self-reliant in population policy and execution.
The core of the Fund's successor support-cost arrangements is high-level technical assistance to help Governments assume the management of UNFPA-funded programmes and projects.
The principal UNFPA mechanism for providing technical support services is the country support team, consisting of a team leader and technical advisers;
those teams are designed to support not only national execution and national capacity-building but also the decentralization of authority, another emphasis given by the Assembly in resolution 47/199.
192.
Low growth prospects, and indeed poor social integration policies, in many countries have increased migration from the underdeveloped to the developed world.
There are today some 100 million international migrants, around 2 per cent of the world population.
Of these, 17 million are refugees and a further 20 million have fled deteriorating economic and ecological conditions at home.
This is causing strains in both the receiving countries - Europe alone received 15 million migrants between 1980 and 1992 - and in the sending countries, strains which have resulted in a renewal of political and social tensions world wide.
193.
UNFPA continues to pay particular attention to ensuring that gender issues are reflected in all aspects of development assistance, especially in capacity-building.
Women and children are often the hardest hit victims of conflict. In situations where no conflict exists, they are often denied their importance in social construction.
For women to realize to the full their potential role as agents of change, they must be able to determine the frequency and timing of childbirth and must have equal access to education and jobs.
194.
The World Conference on Population and Development will be held at Cairo in September 1994.
The second session of the Preparatory Committee for the Conference was successfully convened in New York in May 1993, and a third session is scheduled to take place in New York in April 1994.
The regional commissions are preparing the ground for a conference which will take up the challenge of people-centred development.
5.
World Food Programme
195.
The World Food Programme (WFP), with total expenditure in 1992 of nearly $1.7 billion, is a major source of grant assistance for developing countries in the United Nations system.
Of that amount, 65 per cent was for emergency relief, 29 per cent for development projects, and 6 per cent for programme support and administrative costs.
196.
The balance between emergency and development assistance provided by WFP has altered considerably in the last three years, as the growing needs of victims of natural and man-made disasters have continued to dominate its work.
Previously, emergency assistance accounted for no more than a third of the Programme's annual expenditure;
in 1992, with active relief operations in 48 countries, WFP handled 60 per cent of all international relief food.
Commitments for relief activities in 1992 were nearly 50 per cent higher than in 1991 and nearly three times as high as in 1990.
For 1993, commitments for relief activities are expected to total $1.25 billion, down slightly from the 1992 record of $1.4 billion.
197.
It is estimated that in 1992 some 42 million poor people in developing countries directly benefited from WFP food aid provided in support of development activities or as relief assistance.
Of that number, some 27.5 million people, including 14.4 million refugees and displaced people, received WFP relief food in the course of the year.
198.
As a result of the increase in relief food aid needs in 1992, WFP handled an all-time record of 5.2 million tons of food. The cost of transporting that food totalled more than $400 million.
Three fifths of all shipments of WFP food for the year were for relief, both for short-term emergencies and for long-term refugees and displaced people, compared to one third in earlier years.
199.
As conflict and civil strife continue to cause suffering throughout the world, WFP has encouraged international efforts to develop the principle of safe passage of relief food aid in war zones.
In a number of countries, such as Afghanistan, Angola, Cambodia, Iraq, Liberia, Mozambique, Somalia, the Sudan and the former Yugoslavia, conflict has hampered efforts to deliver humanitarian relief.
WFP staff are often exposed to personal risk in operations to deliver food to civilians trapped by fighting.
200.
In 1992, the Committee on Food Aid Policies and Programmes endorsed a more extensive and systematic application of WFP assistance to support disaster prevention, preparedness, mitigation and rehabilitation measures, particularly in Africa.
In several countries, including the Gambia, Malawi, Mozambique and Uganda, WFP responded to relief needs by providing food to an increasing number of beneficiaries through ongoing development projects.
At the end of 1992, WFP was assisting 258 such projects, with total commitments valued at $3 billion.
It is estimated that 15 million people received food through WFP-assisted development projects.
201.
New WFP commitments for development projects in 1992 ($421 million, representing 1.1 million tons of food) were the lowest in value terms since 1978.
This resulted from a continuing decline since 1988 in resources made available to WFP for development assistance and the need to bring commitments more into line with the expected future availability of resources.
In 1993, commitments for future development projects are expected to decline further, to $300 million, representing 850,000 tons.
Shipments to ongoing development projects in 1993 are expected to reach $470 million, representing 1.4 million tons, which is close to the average for the past four years.
6.
United Nations International Drug Control Programme
202.
The United Nations International Drug Control Programme coordinates all drug control activities within the United Nations system and acts as a point of reference for action taken by Governments.
The Programme also supports technical cooperation activities which reflect its comparative advantage at the multilateral level.
Its strategic priorities have been adapted to evolving drug-related trends, which are themselves driven by unprecedented developments in the political, economic and social fields.
I am encouraged by the fact that, during the forty-eighth session of the General Assembly, four plenary meetings will be devoted to the issue of international cooperation against illicit drugs.
203.
The United Nations International Drug Control Programme has indicated that the inter-agency meeting on international drug abuse control to be held in 1994 will focus on the theme of women, drug abuse and drug control.
C.
Regional development activities
204.
The regional commissions carry out important information-gathering and socio-economic analysis functions in their respective regions.
They have been playing a major role in developing policy on economic integration and in clarifying economic, social, political and environmental issues relating to sustainable development.
They thus provide a forum and a network for cooperation among their member States and between them and other States at the technical level.
In addition, they are increasingly becoming providers of technical cooperation, especially in intersectoral areas and in areas where no other United Nations body has a comparative advantage.
205.
In the restructuring process on which I have embarked I have emphasized the important contribution of the regional commissions.
Steps have therefore been taken to strengthen the functions of the commissions and to increase their responsibilities.
Those steps are designed to enhance the contribution of the commissions - as the regional arms of a single, integrated United Nations programme in the social and economic field - to the global work of Headquarters departments.
206.
Regional commissions should function as the main centres within the United Nations system for general economic and social development in their respective regions.
Decentralization should not however entail a fragmentation of the activities of the Secretariat; rather, it should promote complementarity and mutual reinforcement of activities and should contribute to the cohesiveness of the work of the United Nations.
1.
Economic Commission for Africa
207.
In 1993, the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) intensified its search for durable solutions to the continent's problems and its efforts to put Africa on the path to sustained and sustainable development by articulating policy measures that respond to the needs of African countries in the social and economic fields.
208.
Among the principal activities undertaken by the ECA secretariat was the preparation for and convening of the Third African Population Conference, which was held at Dakar in December 1992.
The Conference was convened in response to Economic and Social Council resolution 1991/93, in which the Council asked regional commissions to convene conferences to review experience gained in population policies and programmes in their regions as part of their contribution to the preparations for the International Conference on Population and Development, to be held at Cairo in 1994.
209.
The ECA secretariat also contributed to the report of the Secretary-General on major issues and programme activities relating to social development to the Commission for Social Development at its thirty-third session, in February 1993.
A progress report on preparatory activities for the International Year of the Family was also prepared for the inter-agency meeting on the Year held at Vienna in March 1993.
210.
During the seventh meeting of the Joint Intergovernmental Regional Committee on Human Settlements and Environment, which was held at Addis Ababa in March 1993, a report on the follow-up to the Rio de Janeiro Conference was presented.
That report included preliminary proposals for strategies to implement Agenda 21 within the framework of the African Common Position on Environment and Development.
The proposals related to the major African environmental and development concerns as expressed in the African Common Position.
The comments of the Committee were brought to the attention of the ECA Conference of Ministers at its nineteenth meeting.
211.
The ECA secretariat continued its efforts to promote the objectives of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons (1983-1992) through the publication and circulation of the newsletter Equal Time, in which a number of activities undertaken by and for disabled persons were highlighted.
212.
With regard to the least developed, island and land-locked countries, ECA produced a Survey of Economic and Social Conditions in the African Least Developed Countries (1991-1992).
That study gives a detailed account of the structure of GDP and the development of the major economic sectors (agriculture, manufacturing, mining), including an assessment of trade, balance of payments, debt and development finance flows and policies pursued in the African least developed, island and land-locked countries.
213.
The Executive Secretary of ECA participated in the meetings of the panel of high-level personalities on African development.
ECA prepared for the panel a paper on the role of indigenous African non-governmental organizations, as part of a report on the role of non-governmental organizations in Africa's development prepared by the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development.
214.
The twenty-eighth session of the Economic Commission for Africa and nineteenth meeting of the Conference of Ministers responsible for economic development and planning, which was held in May 1993, devoted much attention to the challenges of Africa's development in the 1990s and beyond.
It had before it the Commission's Economic Report on Africa, 1993 and a number of technical studies prepared for its consideration.
215.
The Conference endorsed several strategic objectives as the key to Africa's development in the 1990s.
It considered a study on financial resource mobilization for Africa's development, in which it was estimated that about $950 billion (in constant 1990 dollars) of external resources would be required to attain, between 1993 and 2005, the growth target set by the General Assembly in the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s.
In view of the gravity of Africa's external debt burden, well over 50 per cent of that amount would be consumed in servicing inherited external debt, unless steps bolder than conventional debt reduction initiatives are implemented.
216.
Other development issues addressed by the Conference included human development and the advancement of women in Africa, and preparations for the International Conference on Population and Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women, and the World Summit for Social Development.
The Conference also addressed topics related to the implementation of Agenda 21, as well as trade and investment issues in Africa.
2.
Economic Commission for Europe
217.
The break-up of the Soviet Union and of Yugoslavia and the separation of the Czech and Slovak Republics led to the emergence of new States, and as a result the membership of the Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) has increased from 34 to 53, and includes former Soviet republics in Transcaucasia and Central Asia.
218.
Not only the increase in the number of members poses new challenges to ECE:  the very nature of the Commission has changed.
Almost half the member States are now countries in transition, some of them clearly at the stage of developing countries.
In its analytical work, the ECE secretariat now has to deal with 25 countries in transition which have replaced 8 centrally planned economies.
219.
In accordance with the mandate drawn up by the Commission in 1990, ECE has launched a major programme of technical assistance to countries in transition.
That programme could be considerably expanded in areas such as advisory services and training, provided the decentralization process now under way strengthens the resource base of ECE.
Furthermore, given the number of United Nations programmes and bodies which provide technical assistance in the ECE region, a more coordinated approach is needed to ensure that the aid provided by the United Nations is coherent, well-targeted and demand-driven.
The interim office concept, described in section II.B above, was developed in response to that need.
220.
Specific requests for assistance have been formulated by individual ECE countries.
In response to General Assembly resolutions, the Commission invited all its subsidiary bodies to identify ways and means of contributing to international efforts to assist in the mitigation of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster and in the reconstruction of Croatia.
ECE involvement in the latter endeavour is in accordance with the original mandate of the Commission to assist in the reconstruction of war-devastated zones.
A coherent United Nations strategy which ensures an integrated approach to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-ravaged areas in the ECE region should be prepared by competent United Nations programmes without delay.
221.
The Commission, at its forty-eighth session, in April 1993, defined environment, transport, statistics, trade facilitation and economic analysis as its priority areas of activity.
Those priorities were reflected in decisions adopted at that session on questions of environment and sustainable development, cooperation and sustainable development in the chemical industry and cooperation in the field of transport.
The Commission also adopted a decision on activities designed to assist countries of the region in transition to a market economy and their integration with the European and global economy.
The Commission called for further economic cooperation in the Mediterranean region in the light of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, held at Helsinki in 1975.
222.
The Economic Survey of Europe in 1992-1993, published by ECE, contains an in-depth analysis of the European transition countries; their output and demand; labour markets, prices and incomes; foreign trade and payments; macroeconomic policies; market reforms; and progress made in privatization.
The Survey also includes a review of developments in central, eastern and south-eastern European countries, the countries of the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union, and the Baltic republics, together with a discussion of Western responses to the transition in central and eastern Europe in aid and trade, analysing the financial flows and commitments of assistance, and East-West cooperation agreements and market access.
223.
ECE continued to make useful contributions to global programmes of the United Nations.
The Commission submitted to the Rio de Janeiro Conference a compendium of its conventions in the field of environmental protection.
As a part of the preparations for the International Conference on Population and Development, ECE held a European Population Conference jointly with UNFPA and the Council of Europe in March 1993.
At its forty-eighth session, the Commission decided to convene a high-level regional preparatory meeting for the Fourth World Conference on Women.
It also endorsed work under way in socio-economic activities as a contribution to the World Summit for Social Development.
Each year, more than 30 countries from outside the ECE region participate actively in the work of the Commission, and the results of its work are made available to the developing countries of other regions.
224.
The intensive efforts of the ECE secretariat have resulted in further progress in strengthening cooperation and coordination with organizations and institutions such as the Commission of the European Communities, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Council of Europe.
3.
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
225.
The Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), which includes the Latin American and Caribbean Institute for Economic and Social Planning (ILPES) and the Latin American Demographic Centre (CELADE), focused on the promotion of sustainable growth with equity.
Two major publications were produced and presented to the Commission at its twenty-fourth session, in April 1992, and were subsequently given wide distribution.
The first publication, entitled Social Equity and Changing Production Patterns:
An Integrated Approach, explores how the region's countries can advance simultaneously in sustainable growth with greater equity.
It has been hailed by policy makers as an important conceptual contribution to development economics.
The second publication was prepared jointly with UNESCO, under the title Education and Knowledge:
Basic Pillars of Changing Production Patterns with Social Equity;
it highlights the crucial importance of those topics for increasing levels of productivity and improved equity.
226.
CELADE also helped to disseminate demographic knowledge among the Governments of the region by organizing the Meeting of Government Experts on Population and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean, which was held in Saint Lucia in October 1992.
227.
The fourteenth and fifteenth meetings of the Presiding Officers of the Regional Conference on the Integration of Women into the Economic and Social Development of Latin America and the Caribbean were held in Curaçao in June 1992, and at Mexico City in October 1992.
228.
With regard to the integration of women into the economic and social development of Latin America and the Caribbean, ECLAC undertook preparatory activities for the Fourth World Conference on Women.
ECLAC has already begun activities related to the preparation of the new regional programme of action for women in Latin America and the Caribbean, 1995-2001, and is preparing a diagnosis of the status of women that substantively incorporates this question into the new ECLAC proposal on changing production patterns with social equity.
229.
The Social Development Division concentrated its efforts on preparing technical documents for the Third Regional Conference on Poverty in Latin America and the Caribbean, held at Santiago in November 1992.
230.
The Commission continues its permanent role in monitoring economic events in the region.
The formal expression of its work is found in the Preliminary Overview of the Economy of Latin America and the Caribbean, published with up-to-date indicators in December of each year, and in the Economic Survey of Latin America and the Caribbean and the Statistical Yearbook for Latin America and the Caribbean.
ECLAC also continues to be the main forum for economic and social affairs in the region, and the Latin American Centre for Economic and Social Documentation is strengthening information management in the region.
231.
The Commission has undertaken numerous technical cooperation activities, at the request of member States, to assist Governments in the formulation and implementation of policies and plans for economic and social development within the overall strategy of changing production patterns with social equity.
232.
ECLAC co-sponsored the Regional Preparatory Meeting for Latin America and the Caribbean (San José, January 1993) for the World Conference on Human Rights and provided technical support to several presidential forums, including the Meeting of Heads of State of Central America and Panama (Panama, December 1992), the Heads of State of the Rio Group (Buenos Aires, December 1992) and the third Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government (San Salvador de Bahia, Brazil, July 1993).
4.
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
233.
On 9 April 1993, I was present when His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej officially opened the new United Nations Conference Centre at Bangkok, where the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) has its offices.
234.
Regional economic cooperation is gaining ever greater momentum in the ESCAP region.
At the same time, subregional organizations are being revitalized and are focusing, in particular, on the development of infrastructure within their respective subregions.
The newer forms of economic cooperation are transcending the deeply embedded constraints of the cold war;
the States involved in the Viet Nam war, for example, are now entering into the mainstream of development efforts in the region.
235.
Under the revised intergovernmental structure, the first session of the Committee for Regional Economic Cooperation was convened at Bangkok in October 1992, while the first session of its Steering Group was held at New Delhi in November 1992.
The Steering Group considered and adopted an action programme for regional economic cooperation in trade and investment, which was submitted, through the Committee, to the Commission at its forty-ninth session.
236.
The Fourth Asian and Pacific Population Conference was held in Bali in August 1992.
The Conference, sponsored by ESCAP and UNFPA, considered and adopted the Bali Declaration on Population and Sustainable Development, which will serve as the basis for policy-making and programming.
237.
The period since August 1992 has been one of transition for ESCAP from a sectoral to a thematic approach, in terms of both the Commission's subsidiary intergovernmental structure and its programmes.
Considerable attention has been paid to evolving thematic subprogrammes on regional economic cooperation, poverty alleviation through economic growth and social development, and environment and sustainable development in response to this shift in approach.
During the same period, ESCAP activities have focused increasingly on the social dimensions of development.
At the forty-ninth session of the Commission, in April 1993, 3 of the 10 resolutions adopted related to areas of social concern.
238.
In December 1992, ESCAP convened the Meeting to Launch the Asian and Pacific Decade of Disabled Persons, 1993-2002, at Beijing.
At that Meeting, the Proclamation on the Full Participation and Equality of People with Disabilities in the Asian and Pacific Region and the Agenda for Action for the Asian and Pacific Decade of Disabled Persons, 1993-2002, were considered and adopted.
239.
The Special Body on Pacific Island Developing Countries held its first session at Bangkok in February 1993. The Special Body emphasized, inter alia, the importance of international trade and investment for the island economies and recommended the strengthening of finance, investment and trade links between them and the more dynamic economies of the ESCAP region.
The secretariat has issued various research-oriented publications pertinent to the development of the Pacific island developing countries, including Sustainable Agricultural Development Strategies in the Pacific Island Least Developed Countries:
Issues and Policy Options and The Law of the Sea in the South Pacific:
A Study on the Integration of Marine Affairs Activities within Government Concerns.
240.
A study of the theme topic "Expansion of investment and intraregional trade as a vehicle for enhancing regional economic cooperation and development in Asia and the Pacific", presented in part two of the Economic and Social Survey for Asia and the Pacific, 1992, assessed the contribution of the trade-investment nexus to the process of industrial restructuring in the ESCAP region.
241.
Measures have been taken to reinforce the functional relationship between ESCAP and various United Nations organizations and bodies with a view to undertaking a coordinated approach to problem-solving and rendering assistance to the member States.
In addition to meetings held in recent months by the various inter-agency mechanisms, including the Inter-agency Committee on Environment and Development in Asia and the Pacific, the Inter-agency Committee on Integrated Rural Development and the Inter-agency Task-Force on Water for Asia and the Pacific, ESCAP has been seeking to develop greater linkages and cooperative frameworks with other regional bodies.
In that context, special focus has been placed on strengthening the relationship between ESCAP and organizations such as the Association of South-East Asian Nations, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, the South Pacific Forum secretariat, the Economic Cooperation Organization and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, as well as with financial institutions such as the Asian Development Bank.
5.
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia
242.
In the post-cold-war era, as the world moves towards global economic management, and as conflict and cooperation battle for dominance, the challenges to the region of the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) increase in intensity and scope.
The ESCWA region may also be considered a region in transition.
It is at the cross-roads between the politics and cultures of the East and the West, a region searching to assert the identity of its people, to protect its internal and external sovereignty, and to withstand internal and external pressures.
A most serious challenge to the political stability of the region is the eruption of new forms of extremism.
Political instability, uncertainty and unpredictability continue to plague the region and to exercise a preponderant influence on its peace, development and security prospects.
These imminent challenges need to be tackled swiftly and surely.
243.
The physical destruction and damage to the environment, the problems of returnees and pressures on the labour markets and the infrastructure, the instability in oil prices, the decline of recurrent financial transfers in aid and remittances, continued sanctions against Iraq and their adverse impact on neighbouring countries represent enormous challenges to the ESCWA region.
244.
These crisis-related challenges come on top of long-standing structural imbalances, such as the income disparities between and within countries; the uneven distribution of energy resources at the regional level; inadequate energy supply, water shortages, desertification, and lack of food security and transport linkages in many rural and remote areas; vulnerability to fluctuations in oil prices; and external indebtedness.
245.
In its desire to contribute to efforts to redress some of the worst physical and social ravages of the Gulf crisis, as well as man-made and natural disasters, the Commission at its sixteenth session, in September 1992, declared the period 1994-2003 a Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Decade for Western Asia.
To streamline regional action, and in collaboration with the League of Arab States, ESCWA set up an inter-agency Joint Committee for Environment and Development in the Arab Region in April 1993.
In addition, ESCWA is in the process of establishing a regional water council to coordinate activities for a more efficient use of scarce water resources.
To that end, a regional inter-agency consultative mechanism was formed for water and environment which would serve as the nucleus for a regional administrative coordination committee.
246.
The secretariat participated in the formulation of a plan of action to combat desertification region-wide.
The Second Amman Declaration on Population and Development of April 1993 is an instrument to promote regional cooperation and to assist member States in dealing with population issues and population movements.
In the area of transport, ESCWA is heavily involved in activities related to the Transport and Communications Decade in Western Asia (1985-1994).
To help bridge the widening technological gap, ESCWA focused on the formulation of policies and measures to increase the effectiveness of the technology factor in the investment process.
To overcome the lack of timely, reliable and replicable statistics and data, ESCWA set up the Committee on Statistics as a subsidiary body of the Commission.
247.
In addition to preparing studies and convening intergovernmental and expert group meetings, ESCWA provided technical assistance and advisory services to member States to assist them in meeting challenges and formulating action-oriented policies.
For example, the Commission convened an expert group meeting on the operation of enterprises under severe and fast-changing conditions.
Other meetings were convened on the creation of indigenous entrepreneurship, especially to train returnees, and on unemployment as one of the major challenges facing society.
Training activities were introduced as pilot projects to allow women to cope with their multiple roles and contribute to production.
ESCWA also assisted in meeting the needs for rural energy through the introduction of biogas technology in selected countries of the region.
248.
Under the auspices of ESCWA, a multi-disciplinary task force on the Palestinian people and the occupied Arab territories was set up to deal with socio-economic issues emanating from the Israeli occupation and the implications of a peace settlement for countries of the region.
The task force will also provide technical assistance to the Palestinian people.
249.
The most important obstacles facing the Commission in fulfilling its mandate remain the uncertainty and political instability in the region, which have caused interruption in its activities and its relocation several times in the recent past.
They have also contributed to the rifts among countries of the region and the set-backs in cooperation to which failures in the region's performance and inadequate rapport between member States and the secretariat are attributed.
These in turn have caused a dwindling of extrabudgetary funding and a paucity of resources to address emerging needs and, consequently, inadequate regional coordination and harmonization in implementing projects of a regional scope.
D.  Protection of human rights
1.
Centre for Human Rights
250.
In the course of 1993, the activities of the Centre for Human Rights at Geneva underwent a significant expansion in the five main areas of its work:
research, standard-setting and prevention of discrimination;
implementation of international standards;
special procedures;
communications;
and advisory services and information.
251.
On 1 January 1993, I appointed an Assistant Secretary-General to head the Centre for Human Rights, with responsibility for dealing exclusively with human rights issues, to report directly to me.
The Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights is responsible in particular for developing coherent policies and strengthening coordination in the field of human rights, and he serves as a focal point for United Nations relations with regional organizations on human rights matters.
252.
The World Conference on Human Rights, in June 1993, asked for an immediate increase in the Centre's resources from the regular budget.
The Conference indicated clearly that those resources should support the work of the Centre in fulfilling its many urgent mandates, provide for the implementation of the fact-finding procedures of the Commission on Human Rights, ensure the functioning of the treaty bodies and provide sufficient resources to the advisory services programme to enable it to respond to requests by States for assistance.
The Conference also called for increased contributions to the voluntary funds supporting advisory services and activities in favour of indigenous people and against racial discrimination.
Those matters will be addressed in my budget proposals for the biennium 1994-1995.
2.
World Conference on Human Rights
253.
The World Conference on Human Rights, which was held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, was a turning-point in United Nations activities for the promotion and protection of human rights.
The Conference was the culmination of three years of intense activity by all segments of the international community directed at reviewing past progress in the protection of human rights, identifying obstacles to further progress and charting the course of action for the coming years.
254.
The Vienna Conference and its preparatory process were world wide, in terms both of the subjects dealt with and of participation.
Three regional meetings, held at Tunis, San José and Bangkok, preceded the Conference, as did hundreds of other meetings around the world.
Representatives from 172 States took part in the discussions at Vienna together with observers from 95 international organizations, human rights bodies and national human rights institutions and from 840 non-governmental organizations.
A high level of expertise, and a clear commitment to human rights on the part of the participants, contributed to the success of the debates.
Long and careful exchanges of view revealed considerable common ground among the different participants.
The Conference was therefore able to adopt by consensus a declaration and programme of action of historic proportions, but differences of opinion were also candidly stated.
255.
The Vienna Conference reaffirmed the universality of fundamental human rights and the principle that the human person is the central subject of human rights, should be the principal beneficiary and should participate actively in the realization of human rights.
But the Conference did not deal with the question solely at a theoretical level: it also called for effective action to secure the human rights of every individual on a universal basis.
The Conference also recognized the right to development as a human right and the mutually reinforcing interrelationship between democracy, development and respect for human rights, and the need to assist developing countries in their democratization process.
It also clearly established the link between universality and equality, and stressed the need to eliminate all discrimination based on race and similar factors.
The Conference provided substantive guidance for the United Nations in its future work in this area and called for world-wide action against discrimination and in favour of tolerance.
256.
There was also notable progress in two other areas.
The Conference stressed that priority should be given to action to secure the full and equal enjoyment by women of all human rights:
respect for women's rights must be integrated into the overall human rights programme and into development activities.
Special attention must be given to protecting women and girl children from violence and other human rights violations which threaten them particularly.
The Conference called for universal ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women by the year 2000, and the drafting of an optional protocol to that Convention to permit individual complaints of violations of women's rights to be considered.
257.
The need to act effectively to protect the rights of children, including children in especially difficult circumstances and the girl child, was another step forward.
All competent organs are being asked to review and monitor progress in protecting children's rights and the year 1995 has been set as the target for the universal ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
258.
Another important step forward was the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities and of the need to take specific measures to protect vulnerable groups, including migrant workers, and to ensure that they participate in the search for solutions to their own problems.
The human rights dimensions of extreme poverty and exclusion were also recognized, as was the need to deal not only with human rights violations but also with their causes.
In this context the Conference called for national and international action on a priority basis to eliminate specific obstacles to the enjoyment of human rights.
259.
During this International Year for the World's Indigenous People, the Vienna Conference recognized the inherent dignity and unique contribution of indigenous people, reaffirmed the international community's commitment to their well-being, and reiterated the obligation of States to ensure respect for their rights.
260.
A key result of the Conference was the widespread acceptance of the need for cooperation between Governments, the United Nations, other international organizations, national human rights institutions and non-governmental organizations.
An effective partnership involving all those actors is essential for the effective promotion and protection of human rights.
261.
The Vienna Conference recognized the increasingly important contribution non-governmental organizations can play in human rights activities, especially in relation to development and human rights.
One of the most important achievements of the Conference was its success in harnessing the energies of hitherto untapped grass-roots organizations, particularly from Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean.
262.
The importance of human rights to United Nations activities in the fields of peacemaking, peace-keeping and preventive diplomacy, and in social and economic development, was also amply demonstrated by the Vienna Conference.
The inclusion of the human rights dimension in the planning, implementation and evaluation of programmes and projects in those areas will be important to their success and to the promotion of human rights.
263.
Increased attention is to be given to implementing economic, social and cultural rights through, in particular, the drafting of optional protocols to the 1966 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the use of indicators.
264.
Education was repeatedly stressed as a crucial element in building future respect for human rights.
By adopting a concrete and practical approach it should be possible for human rights to be included in teaching programmes in all countries, both in schools and in programmes for those who are not in school.
265.
The Vienna Conference reaffirmed that efforts to eradicate torture should be concentrated on prevention, and called for the early adoption of an optional protocol to the 1984 Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment to allow regular visits to places of detention.
It also recommended that States should abrogate legislation leading to impunity for those responsible for torture.
266.
The role of the United Nations in the promotion and protection of human rights must be strengthened, renewed and revitalized if the promises of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action are to be kept.
International coordination and cooperation were seen at Vienna as crucial for improving respect for human rights.
United Nations bodies, specialized agencies, regional intergovernmental organizations and national human rights institutions all have important contributions to make in this overall coordinated approach.
267.
The Centre for Human Rights was identified as the focal point for global cooperation for human rights.
The Conference called for an annual United Nations coordination meeting at a high level as one element in this approach.
Close cooperation will also have to be established with other key actors.
268.
The Vienna Conference recognized that future progress would depend in large part on the availability of assistance to countries engaged in improving and strengthening their protection of human rights.
An overall United Nations approach was called for, enabling States to strengthen democratic institutions and the rule of law, to protect minority rights and those of indigenous peoples, and to hold democratic elections.
The programme of advisory services and technical assistance in the field of human rights has been given specific new and wide-ranging responsibilities in helping to improve respect for human rights.
269.
The United Nations must be able to respond rapidly and professionally to allegations of human rights violations and to service adequately the machinery set up for that purpose.
We must at the same time seek ways of improving the operation and impact of those mechanisms.
270.
The Vienna Conference also proposed that United Nations activities in human rights be given greater focus by means of three decades for action:  one relating to indigenous people, one for education and human rights and one against racism and racial discrimination.
The General Assembly, in addition, has before it the Conference's proposal for a United Nations decade for human rights.
3. Implementation of human rights conventions
271.
The Vienna Conference set universal ratification of the basic international human rights treaties as an important objective.
In 1998 the follow-up review of the implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action will give special attention to the progress made towards universal ratification.
272.
As at 7 September 1993, the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination has been ratified by 137 States and the 1973 International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid by 97 States.
Of the two 1966 Human Rights Covenants, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has been ratified by 125 States and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by 123 States.
The 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women has been ratified by 126 States, and the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child by 146 States.
273.
The level of ratification of other conventions is most unsatisfactory, however.
So far, only 76 States have ratified the 1984 Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment;
only 56 States have ratified the 1985 International Convention against Apartheid in Sports;
only 2 States have ratified the 1990 International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families; and the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, aiming at the abolition of the death penalty, adopted by the General Assembly on 15 December 1989, has been ratified by only 19 States.
274.
As Secretary-General of the United Nations, I strongly urge States to ratify all human rights treaties.
To that end, I intend to open a dialogue with Member States to identify and to try to overcome the obstacles to ratification.
I also believe that regional organizations have a positive role to play in making States more aware of this issue.
275.
The process of democratization cannot be separated from the protection of human rights.
More precisely, the effective safeguarding of human rights is possible only in a democratic framework.
It is therefore not possible to separate the United Nations promotion of human rights from the global trend towards democratization.
FIGURE 6         Expenditures of funds and programmes administered by the         United Nations Development Programme, 1982-1992         (Millions of United States dollars) FIGURE 7         Core resources of the United Nations Development         Programme, 1982-1992         (Millions of United States dollars)
"... to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace, and for the suppression of acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace, and to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations which might lead to a breach of the peace"
Charter of the United Nations, Article 1, paragraph 1
IV.
EXPANDING PREVENTIVE DIPLOMACY, HUMANITARIAN                       ASSISTANCE AND CONFLICT RESOLUTION
A.
Implementing an Agenda for Peace
276.
On 18 December 1992 the General Assembly, in its resolution 47/120, welcomed my report entitled "An Agenda for Peace" and encouraged me to pursue my efforts in preventive diplomacy.
The Assembly also invited me to strengthen the capacity of the Secretariat for the collection of information and analysis to serve better the early-warning needs of the Organization.
The informal open-ended working group established by the Assembly has continued to discuss other recommendations contained in my report, which has also been considered by the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization and the Special Committee on Peace-keeping Operations.
277.
The Security Council held monthly meetings between October 1992 and May 1993 to examine specific proposals made in "An Agenda for Peace".
Eight statements by the President were issued as part of this process.
On 15 June 1993, I submitted a report (A/47/965-S/25944) on the implementation of the recommendations contained in "An Agenda for Peace".
An interdepartmental task force was also set up to propose further measures for implementing those recommendations.
278.
In "An Agenda for Peace", I set out some definitions of the range of peace operations undertaken by the United Nations across the world.
Preventive diplomacy is action to prevent disputes from arising between parties, to prevent existing disputes from escalating into conflicts and to limit the spread of the latter when they occur.
Peacemaking is action to bring hostile parties to agreement, essentially through such peaceful means as those foreseen in Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations.
Peace-keeping is the deployment of a United Nations presence in the field, hitherto with the consent of all the parties concerned, normally involving United Nations military or police personnel and frequently civilians also.
Peace-keeping is a technique that expands the possibilities for both the prevention of conflict and the making of peace.
The concept of peace enforcement should be added here.
It involves peace-keeping activities which do not necessarily involve the consent of all the parties concerned.
Peace enforcement is foreseen in Chapter VII of the Charter.
Peace-building is action to identify and support structures which will tend to strengthen and solidify peace so as to avert a relapse into conflict.
Preventive diplomacy seeks to resolve disputes before violence breaks out;
peacemaking and peace-keeping, and sometimes peace enforcement, are required to halt conflicts and preserve peace once it is attained.
If successful, they strengthen the opportunity for post-conflict peace-building, which can prevent the recurrence of violence among nations and peoples.
In practice, the various steps of peace operations are intertwined and may be performed simultaneously and in parallel.
B.
Preventive diplomacy
279.
Once an elusive and undefined concept, preventive diplomacy is now becoming understood as a vital field for practical action.
New forms of preventive diplomacy have evolved in the course of the past year;
it incorporates efforts designed to prevent the occurrence of armed conflict, such as fact-finding, good offices and goodwill missions, the dispatch of special envoys to tense areas, and efforts to bring parties to a potential conflict to the negotiating table.
Today, the variety of challenges faced by the United Nations has led to a more intensive and creative use of such familiar techniques.
280.
I find myself frequently engaged in preventive diplomacy.
Because of the nature of this work, and the requirements of the parties, such diplomacy often takes place behind the scenes.
When efforts fail, the results will be seen in public.
When there is success, the story must often remain untold.
Preventive diplomacy takes place continuously and can range from a brief telephone conversation to the movement of military units.
281.
More than 100 missions of representation, fact-finding and goodwill offices to various countries were undertaken on my behalf.
I have myself travelled extensively to extend good offices and represent the Organization throughout the world.
A catalogue of all the missions undertaken by myself and on my behalf would be too long to include here.
Suffice it to state that, between August 1992 and July 1993, I held high-level talks in 27 countries, visiting many of them more than once.
Some examples of action taken during the past year will illustrate the nature of this field of endeavour and its new dimensions.
1.
South Africa:
observers
282.
For the first time, civilian United Nations observers have been sent to a country with the consent of the Government, to assist the authorities of that country and the conflicting parties in what is purely a domestic matter:
containing the level of violence.
The country in question is South Africa.
This is a significant breakthrough and could serve as a useful precedent in similar situations elsewhere.
283.
The Security Council, in its resolution 772 (1992), authorized me to deploy United Nations observers.
I appointed Angela King as Chief of the United Nations Observer Mission in South Africa;
she took up her post on 23 September 1992.
The observers, together with observers from other organizations, including the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Commonwealth and the European Community, have worked in close cooperation with the National Peace Committee, the National Peace Secretariat and the Commission of Inquiry regarding the Prevention of Public Violence and Intimidation to reduce tensions, contain demonstrations and stop clashes from getting out of control.
There are now 49 United Nations observers in South Africa.
After an initial mission undertaken on my behalf by Cyrus Vance, I designated two special envoys, Virendra Dayal and Tom Vraalsen, who visited South Africa.
On the basis of their findings, I submitted on 22 December 1992 a second report on the question of South Africa (S/25004), in which I noted that distinct progress had been made in implementing the recommendations set out in my report of 7 August 1992 (S/24389).
284.
I have been in personal contact with President F. W. de Klerk, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, Mr. Clarence Makwetu, Mr. Nelson Mandela and other South African leaders to assist in the strengthening of the structures set up under the National Peace Accord.
I also addressed letters to leaders of the homelands.
The decision to hold South Africa's first-ever free elections in accordance with the principles of universal suffrage opens the way for the country's transition to a democratic and non-racial society, an objective which has defined United Nations involvement in South Africa.
The level of violence continues, however, to be a source of serious concern.
2.
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
285.
In the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for the first time ever in United Nations history, military units have been deployed as a measure of preventive diplomacy.
The Security Council, in resolution 795 (1992), authorized me to establish a presence of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on the borders with Albania and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).
That act of preventive deployment was taken out of concern to avert a wider Balkan war.
There are currently just under 1,000 peace-keepers in the region in addition to a small group of United Nations civilian police.
At the same time, the United Nations is providing emergency relief assistance to the 900,000 persons displaced by the conflict.
A consolidated appeal for $78 million has been launched for this humanitarian programme.
286.
Under United Nations auspices, Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are engaged in talks intended to reduce the tensions brought about by the recognition of the independence of the latter.
The Co-Chairmen of the Steering Committee of the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia have presented to the representatives of Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia a draft treaty prepared on the basis of extensive consultations with the two sides.
Part A of the draft treaty includes a number of special provisions designed to promote friendly relations and to set up confidence-building measures, while parts B to E set out provisions for friendship and neighbourly cooperation appropriate to the interaction of two adjoining States establishing relations for the first time.
287.
At the time of the deployment of UNPROFOR, the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was gravely concerned about an external security threat.
The presence of UNPROFOR and the admission to membership in the United Nations of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have contributed to alleviating those fears.
In this connection, the strengthening of UNPROFOR under Security Council resolution 842 (1993) is a welcome development.
288.
On 18 June the Security Council, in resolution 845 (1993), urged Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to continue their efforts, under my auspices, to arrive at a speedy settlement of remaining issues between them.
I have appointed Cyrus Vance to exercise good offices on my behalf.
3.
Preventive humanitarian action
289.
Frequently, situations of humanitarian need provide indications of impending conflict even before they develop into more serious threats to international peace and security.
Early awareness of the root causes of conflict can allow appropriate preventive action to be taken.
The provision of humanitarian assistance for such preventive purposes has made it possible to contain the impact of some emergencies.
One such success has been the joint United Nations-Southern Africa Development Community drought emergency in southern Africa programme, under which comprehensive measures to mitigate the effects of the drought, minimize the potential population displacement and avert famine were put into place in 10 countries of the region.
290.
Another type of preventive humanitarian action is the strengthening of the national capacity of disaster-prone countries.
I fully support action taken to integrate disaster prevention and preparedness activities into the mainstream development projects of organizations of the United Nations system within the framework of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction.
For other emergencies which result from long-term economic deterioration, or slow-moving natural disasters such as drought, early humanitarian preventive action can save thousands of lives and millions of dollars in subsequent remedial action.
291.
An inter-agency early-warning mechanism for examining possible situations of mass population displacement is being managed by the Department of Humanitarian Affairs.
One of its purposes is to assist in determining when preventive humanitarian action may be appropriate.
C.
Peace-keeping in a changing context
292.
Just as preventive diplomacy and conflict resolution, familiar responsibilities of the United Nations, have taken on new dimensions, so the term peace-keeping now stretches across a heretofore unimagined range of United Nations activities and responsibilities.
293.
Peace-keeping is a United Nations invention.
The concept is, however, not a static one, but is ever changing;
in order to succeed, and to reflect the changing needs of the community of States, peace-keeping has to be reinvented every day.
Each case in which United Nations peace-keepers are involved draws upon the fund of experience, imagination and professionalism of the Organization.
It is not an exaggeration to state that today there are as many types of peace-keeping operations as there are types of conflict.
294.
The task of peace-keeping, like that of peacemaking, is subject to an essential constraint:
for peace-keeping to succeed, the parties to a conflict must have the necessary political will.
Peace-keeping, even more than peacemaking, requires the adherence of the conflicting parties to the principle of peaceful resolution of conflicts, in other words, to the Charter itself.
295.
Traditional assumptions relating to the upholding of agreements, the consent and cooperation of the parties and the minimum use of force have all been under challenge from recent developments in certain peace-keeping operations.
United Nations peace-keepers have been sent to areas where there are no agreements, where Governments do not exist or have limited effective authority and where the consent and cooperation of the parties cannot be relied upon.
All too frequently, their work is obstructed by well-armed irregular groups and warlords who defy both their national authorities, where these exist, and the international community.
296.
Some 80,000 civilian and military personnel now serve in 17 United Nations peace-keeping operations across the world (see figures 8 and 9).
If additional operations and troop reinforcements at present under consideration are implemented, the total could rise to 100,000 by the end of 1993.
Today, peace-keepers perform a variety of complex tasks, such as protecting humanitarian aid convoys, supporting the supervision of elections and monitoring human rights, in addition to their basic responsibility of keeping apart the warring parties.
Keeping the peace, therefore, is only a step in the process of the peaceful resolution of conflicts. It should not be confused with conflict resolution.
Putting a halt to armed hostilities is not in itself a solution of the conflicts.
It offers temporary respite from hostilities, while the crisis is being resolved in the political, humanitarian, economic and social spheres.
297.
One key aspect of the new generation of United Nations peace-keeping operations is the role of public information in promoting understanding and generating support at both the national and the international levels.
That support can be built only on a clear understanding of why a particular mission has been sent to a specific area, and how the mission plans to accomplish its objectives.
In the atmosphere of heightened tension in conflict areas, public information activities play a vital role in facilitating the mission's work by disseminating timely and objective information, and counteracting propaganda and misinformation.
Effective public information activities can also be instrumental in generating and sustaining the support of the international community for the success of the missions.
In the absence of information from the United Nations there may be misunderstandings of the United Nations mandate, which can give rise to unwarranted criticism of the Organization's activities.
298.
In June 1992, I was able to report that Member States were keen to participate in peace-keeping operations and that military observers and infantry were invariably available.
This is no longer generally the case.
Difficulties which were previously encountered only when specialized logistic units were sought now arise also in the case of infantry and military as well as police observers.
299.
To deal with the increased demand for peace-keeping operations and the consequent shortage of peace-keepers, several steps have been taken:
(a)
I have invited Member States to designate qualified         personnel for consideration for secondment to a peace-keeping         operation;
(b)
A special planning team has been set up with the task of         defining standard components from which different types of         peace-keeping operations might be put together.
The team has         briefed delegations on its work and Member States have been         invited to enter into discussions with the Secretariat about the         components of peace-keeping operations which they would, in         principle, be ready to provide;
(c)
I have accepted offers by Member States to make         available peace-keeping personnel on loan;
(d)
It has become necessary to use the services of         contractors for support activities for field operations normally         performed by United Nations staff.
300.
The respective roles of the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of Peace-keeping Operations have, as indicated in section II above, been more clearly defined.
The latter Department now incorporates the Field Operations Division and is being strengthened.
It will be responsible for providing Headquarters technical and administrative support for integrated operations in the field including, as appropriate, peace-keeping, peacemaking, electoral or humanitarian components.
This restructuring will enhance the planning, coordination and reporting of peace-keeping operations and ensure better delivery of services to the various United Nations operations.
301.
A military planning cell has been formed within the Department of Peace-keeping Operations, with military staff on loan from Member States.
A situation room, staffed by military officers, has been created to enable the competent Departments to maintain a continuous link with operations in Somalia and the former Yugoslavia.
I am considering an integrated situation room which would cover United Nations peace-keeping world wide in all its aspects.
302.
The growth in peace-keeping has profoundly affected the operations of the Organization (see figure 10).
Every administrative entity in the Secretariat has been required to assign staff to one or more of the peace-keeping operations.
As I reported in section II above, the staff members remaining have had to perform the tasks previously carried out by their absent colleagues.
Demands have grown so much that it is now no longer possible to fill all the positions within the Secretariat or in the field with existing Secretariat staff, and substantial additional staff will be required, since staff on loan from Member States cannot be used to establish permanent structures.
303.
I am conscious of the mounting cost of peace-keeping and the burden this entails for Member States.
I welcome, therefore, General Assembly resolution 47/217, by which the Assembly authorized a Peace-keeping Reserve Fund of $150 million, which, when fully funded, will enhance the Organization's ability to respond to new crises.
I hope that the General Assembly will consider favourably, at its forty-eighth session, my proposal that it appropriate one third of the estimated cost of each new peace-keeping operation as soon as it is established by the Security Council.
I have also asked the Assembly to encourage the inclusion of peace-keeping contributions in national defence budgets.
I should like to restate here that, in accordance with the Charter and the relevant General Assembly resolutions, financing of peace-keeping is the collective responsibility of all Member States.
304.
One of the consequences of the delay in the payment of assessed contributions is that States contributing to peace operations are themselves reimbursed only after long delays.
As a result, certain Member States have had to withdraw their contingents from peace-keeping operations.
305.
I have proposed the setting-up of a reserve, revolving stock of equipment to be drawn on for ongoing operations. The subsequent replenishment would be charged to the accounts of specific operations.
306.
The rapid rise in demand for peace-keeping operations, together with the expansion in their scope and nature, has highlighted the urgent need to develop and maintain uniform high standards for peace-keeping.
Training manuals are now being prepared for troops, military observers and civilian police.
The object is to create an international pool of peace-keeping personnel with comparable skills, knowledge, discipline and code of conduct, able to work together effectively at short notice.
307. An issue to which I attach the greatest importance is the safety and security of peace-keeping personnel.
As the United Nations takes on more complex and riskier mandates, the safety and security of United Nations troops and other personnel have become increasingly important.
Since United Nations peace-keeping operations began, 949 peace-keepers have lost their lives. More than 550 have died in ongoing missions (see figure 11).
At the request of the Security Council I have prepared a report on existing arrangements for the protection of United Nations forces and personnel and the adequacy of those arrangements.
I take this opportunity to reaffirm my faith in the professionalism of United Nations peace-keeping forces and my appreciation of their courage.
They have performed their difficult tasks admirably, often at the cost of life and limb, in a variety of difficult and often unfamiliar circumstances.
The sacrifice of those who have lost their lives will not be forgotten by the international community.
D.
New departures in peace operations
308.
The past 12 months have shown that it is not possible to draw clear lines between the different aspects of today's peace operations.
Each of the cases which follow will highlight one or more of the aspects of peace operations in all their diversity;
in some, nearly every technique and activity available has to be employed across the board.
1.
Afghanistan
309.
The goal of establishing peace and stability in Afghanistan is still far from being achieved.
The newly established Islamic State of Afghanistan has not yet, despite considerable efforts, succeeded in developing the political and security conditions necessary for the urgent tasks of reconstruction and rehabilitation and the return of refugees.
My Personal Representative, Sotirios Mousouris, as head of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan, is facilitating humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan.
He also, as head of the Office of the Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan, continues to monitor political developments there.
It is my hope that the steps taken recently towards the implementation of the two peace accords reached over the past seven months will create the necessary conditions for a stable political process and the peaceful reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country.
310.
The question of relations between Afghanistan and Tajikistan is crucial for peace and security in the region.
I discuss this question in paragraphs 397 to 401 below.
2.
Angola
311.
The case of Angola illustrates the way in which United Nations peace-keepers have had to take on a multiplicity of roles.
The United Nations Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM II) had the responsibility of monitoring the cease-fire and demobilization arrangements in the country.
In addition, UNAVEM II was entrusted with witnessing the balloting in the country's first multi-party elections after years of devastating civil war.
The electoral component of UNAVEM II was approved by the Security Council on 24 March 1992, and its deployment began in April 1992.
The registration and campaign processes were monitored by 98 international staff members in 5 regional headquarters and 18 provincial offices.
During the period that followed, approximately 400 observers verified the process.
In April 1992, a team of consultants provided substantive technical assistance and support to the electoral authorities, in close coordination with the European Community and the United States Agency for International Development.
They contributed to the organization of a massive operation, involving a large number of planes and helicopters, for the transport of electoral material to areas of difficult access.
Legislative elections and the first round of the presidential elections took place on 29 and 30 September 1992.
Despite the Mission's assessment of the electoral process as fair, the results were not recognized by the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), which resumed hostilities, thereby precipitating a grave political and humanitarian crisis.
312.
Since the resumption of hostilities, UNAVEM II has been engaged once more in peacemaking activities in addition to its role of protecting access for relief assistance.
I have been vigorously pressing the parties, in particular UNITA, to re-establish a cease-fire and to return as soon as possible to the peace process in order to achieve national reconciliation.
Meanwhile, it should be made clear that the illegal occupation by UNITA of many localities is not acceptable to the international community.
313.
The situation faced by Angola is now more tragic than ever.
The humanitarian crisis is reaching unprecedented proportions, and has been worsened by severe drought in the southern part of the country.
Incidences of malnutrition and malnutrition-related diseases have increased, and medicine and medical supplies are frequently in short supply.
It is estimated that drought, disease and civil war have severely disrupted the lives of at least 2 million Angolans, many of whom cannot be reached because of security constraints.
314.
In May 1993, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs issued a consolidated inter-agency appeal for Angola, seeking $227 million in assistance for the one-year period ending in April 1994.
At the conference of donors held at Geneva on 3 June, initial contributions of approximately $70 million were registered.
The humanitarian crisis in Angola is at least as serious as that in Somalia;
unfortunately the assistance programme in Angola has received much less financial support from the international community.
315.
The United Nations has taken a number of measures to strengthen its humanitarian assistance capacity and better coordinate the efforts of all concerned, including the non-governmental organizations participating in the relief effort.
The functions and responsibilities of my Special Representative for Angola have been expanded to cover all emergency relief operations arising out of the present situation.
A humanitarian coordination assistance unit, headed by a senior official with extensive operational experience, and reporting directly to the Special Representative, has been set up at Luanda.
Continuing hostilities have caused the suspension of the organized voluntary repatriation of Angolans from Zaire and Zambia.
Repeated efforts since May 1993 to launch an emergency relief programme for conflict-affected areas have been thwarted by security incidents and difficult negotiations over the destinations and means of delivery of humanitarian assistance.
As in many similar situations, the Government and UNITA have been called upon to observe international humanitarian law to allow for the provision of relief assistance.
316.
The Angolan political and military situation has continued to deteriorate dangerously as fighting has intensified and as the mistrust which has inhibited significant political accommodation has deepened.
The possible consequences, both for Angola and for regional security, are more and more worrying.
317.
The Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity, meeting at Cairo in June 1993, called on UNITA to resume the peace talks with the Government as soon as possible with a view to establishing a definitive cease-fire and ensuring the full implementation of the Peace Accords for Angola.
I took the opportunity of my participation in that Assembly to consult extensively with President José Eduardo dos Santos and other African leaders on ways and means of advancing the peace process in Angola.
318.
Alioune Blondin Beye took over as my Special Representative from Margaret Anstee on 30 June 1993.
I am most grateful to Ms. Anstee for her work. She accomplished much, in the most difficult circumstances.
319.
Since his arrival in Angola my Special Representative has been pursuing, at various levels, intensive consultations directed at resuming the peace talks under United Nations auspices with a view to the establishment of a cease-fire throughout the country and the full implementation of the Peace Accords.
Those efforts have taken my Special Representative to Gabon, Namibia, Sao Tomé and Principe, Zaire and Zimbabwe.
320.
In conformity with paragraph 1 of Security Council resolution 834 (1993), I have reduced the size of UNAVEM II to its current strength of 43 international civilian staff members, 50 military observers, 18 police observers and 11 military paramedical personnel, as well as necessary local staff.
The activities of the military and police components of the Mission, which are currently deployed in four locations in addition to Luanda, consist essentially of patrolling, assessing the military situation, liaising with military and civilian officials, assisting in the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the civilian population and participating in other humanitarian operations.
Current staff and logistic resources are based on my assessment of the situation at the time Security Council resolution 834 (1993) was adopted.
However, additional administrative support will be required at short notice if there is an increase in operations.
3.
Armenia and Azerbaijan
321.
In October 1992 I sent a fact-finding mission to Armenia and Azerbaijan to report on the situation there regarding the conflicts over Nagorny Karabakh, an enclave within Azerbaijan.
In March 1993, the conflict escalated further when the Kelbadzhar district of Azerbaijan, between Armenia and Nagorny Karabakh, was occupied. That development resulted in a sudden increase in the number of displaced persons in Azerbaijan.
322.
After the occupation of the Kelbadzhar district, the President of the Security Council made a statement on behalf of the Council, by which, inter alia, I was requested, in consultation with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), to submit urgently a report to the Council regarding the situation on the ground.
Following the submission of my report (S/25600), the Security Council, on 30 April 1993, adopted resolution 822 (1993), its first resolution on Nagorny Karabakh.
Later in the year, following further fighting and occupation of Azerbaijani territory, the Council in its resolution 853 (1993) demanded the immediate cessation of all hostilities and the withdrawal of the occupying forces from Agdam and all other recently occupied areas of the Azerbaijani Republic.
323.
In the conflict relating to Nagorny Karabakh, the role of the United Nations is essentially one of support for the efforts of CSCE.
A United Nations observer has participated regularly in the discussions of the Minsk Group of CSCE, which has drawn up a timetable setting out urgent steps to be taken for achieving the withdrawal of occupying forces from Kelbadzhar and a solution in Nagorny Karabakh, with appropriate verification and monitoring.
I remain committed to supporting the efforts of CSCE.
324.
In December 1992, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, after consulting United Nations humanitarian agencies, launched a joint appeal for humanitarian assistance to both Armenia and Azerbaijan in the amount of $12 million.
Following further requests for assistance from the Governments of the two countries, inter-agency needs assessments were organized and humanitarian needs amounting to $22.5 million for Armenia and $12.5 million for Azerbaijan were reported.
Those assessments were discussed at meetings of donors held at Geneva on 10 and 11 June 1993.
The humanitarian programmes are being implemented by UNICEF, WFP, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the World Health Organization (WHO), and cover the period from 1 July 1993 to 31 March 1994.
UNHCR is providing assistance to some 50,000 persons displaced by the recent fighting.
A further inter-agency needs assessment is being planned by the Department of Humanitarian Affairs to re-evaluate the humanitarian situation in Azerbaijan.
4.
Cyprus
325.
In March 1993, my Special Representative, Oscar Camilión, was recalled to the service of his Government after five years in the post.
I wish to thank Mr. Camilión for all he has done to help bring lasting peace to Cyprus, notably his contribution to the Set of Ideas which remains the basis of my efforts to achieve a comprehensive political settlement of the conflict there.
I appointed Joe Clark to succeed Mr. Camilión.
326.
Peace-keeping efforts in Cyprus have long been hampered by the inadequacy of financial resources.
On 27 May 1993, the Security Council, in its resolution 831 (1993), decided that with effect from the next extension of the mandate of the United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) on or before 15 June 1993, those costs of the Force which are not covered by voluntary contributions should be treated as expenses of the Organization under Article 17, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United Nations.
327.
By its resolution 831 (1993) the Security Council also endorsed the restructuring plan proposed in paragraphs 16 to 19 of my report of 30 March 1993 (S/25492), with the addition of a limited number of observers for reconnaissance and with a view to further restructuring the Force in the light of a comprehensive reassessment of UNFICYP at the time of the consideration of the Force's mandate in December 1993.
328.
Also, in resolution 831 (1993) the Security Council reaffirmed that the present status quo was not acceptable and expressed concern that the United Nations should not be entering into open-ended peace-keeping commitments.
The restructuring of UNFICYP following successive reductions in strength has major implications for the two parties. Greater responsibility rests with them for ensuring that there is no increase in tension in Cyprus and that conditions can be maintained for a speedy overall agreement as envisaged by the Security Council.
It is imperative that the two sides exercise maximum restraint and, in accordance with the package of confidence-building measures, extend without delay the 1989 unmanning agreement to all parts of the buffer zone where their forces remain in close proximity to each other.
I urge both sides to take reciprocal measures to lower the tension, including mutual commitments, through UNFICYP, not to deploy along the cease-fire lines live ammunition or weapons (other than those which are hand held), and to prohibit firing of weapons within sight or hearing of the buffer zone.
It is also necessary for both sides to work together so that their own agencies can resume the humanitarian functions which, in its efforts to restore normal conditions, UNFICYP has assumed over the years.
329.
In the aftermath of the 1974 hostilities in Cyprus, peace-building has been an integral part of United Nations efforts.
The confidence-building measures I recommended to the Security Council in November 1992 include the rehabilitation of the fenced area of Varosha as a special area for bicommunal contact and commerce, a kind of free-trade zone in which both sides could trade goods and services.
In addition, Nicosia International Airport would be opened for civilian passenger and cargo traffic under the administration of the United Nations in cooperation with the International Civil Aviation Organization.
Both communities would have unrestricted use of the airport.
Supported by my Special Representative, I am continuing my efforts to persuade the Turkish-Cypriot side to accept these proposals.
In particular, I have held two rounds of talks in New York to bring the parties closer to agreement.
330.
Some proposals for further confidence-building measures were also included in my report to the Security Council of 1 July 1993 (S/26026). They include cooperation on the short-term and the long-term water problem in Cyprus, cooperation on education to promote intercommunal harmony and friendship, joint cultural and sports events, meetings of political party leaders and of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry of both sides, expert cooperation in areas such as health and the environment, and cooperative arrangements on electricity.
It should be emphasized, however, that confidence-building measures, beneficial though they may be, should not be substituted for an overall solution, nor can they be part of a step-by-step approach to such a solution.
Their purpose is to serve as a catalyst in the negotiations leading to a comprehensive, overall solution to the question of Cyprus.
5.
East Timor
331.
Good offices efforts for a comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution to the question of East Timor are continuing.
As indicated to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh session (see A/47/435), the Foreign Ministers of Indonesia and Portugal, at my invitation, held informal consultations in New York on 26 September 1992.
This was followed by two rounds of substantive discussions between the two Foreign Ministers under my auspices, the first in New York on 17 December 1992 and the second in Rome on 21 April 1993.
A number of possible confidence-building measures, designed to create an atmosphere more propitious to addressing the core issues, were explored at those meetings.
The discussions have continued in New York since April, at the Permanent Representative level.
The next meeting between the two Foreign Ministers and myself will be held on 17 September in New York.
My Personal Envoy, Amos Wako, was in Indonesia and East Timor from 3 to 9 April 1993.
In May 1993 a United Nations observer attended the final stages of the trial at Dili, East Timor, of Xanana Gusmão, the detained leader of the pro-independence movement, the Frente Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente (FRETILIN).
6.
Georgia
332.
In August 1992, fighting broke out in Abkhazia, Georgia.
Since then, hostilities between Georgian and Abkhaz troops, supported by irregular units from the northern Caucasus region, have resulted in hundreds of casualties and thousands of refugees and displaced persons.
In September and October 1992, I dispatched two United Nations fact-finding missions to Georgia and Abkhazia in support of and pursuant to the Moscow agreement of 3 September.
After the second mission, with Security Council endorsement, two United Nations personnel remained in Georgia to provide an initial United Nations presence, with the tasks of maintaining continuing contact with all concerned, providing United Nations Headquarters with situation reports and acting as liaison.
333.
Early in 1993, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs organized a United Nations inter-agency mission which visited all parts of Georgia.
A consolidated appeal in the amount of $21 million was issued at the end of March. The appeal covered the needs of the affected population in Abkhazia, in Government-controlled areas of Georgia and, to a small extent, in South Ossetia.
The overall humanitarian needs of Georgia will shortly be re-evaluated in view of the changing situation and in consultation with United Nations humanitarian organizations.
334.
In view of the unabated fighting in Abkhazia at the beginning of May 1993, I appointed a Special Envoy, Edouard Brunner, to Georgia to revive the peace process;
he undertook his first mission to the region from 20 to 31 May 1993.
During that time, he also visited Stockholm, for consultations with the Chairman-in-Office of CSCE, and Moscow for discussions with the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation.
In pursuance of paragraph 2 of Security Council resolution 849 (1993), I dispatched a planning team to the conflict area on 19 July 1993. The team returned to New York on 27 July 1993.
335.
A cease-fire agreement, mediated by the Personal Representative of the President of the Russian Federation, Boris Pastukhov, was signed on 27 July 1993 by the Georgian and Abkhaz sides.
My Special Envoy arrived in the region on 28 July, four hours after the cease-fire had entered into force.
He stayed in the region until 31 July and had discussions with both parties to the conflict, and with officials from the Russian Federation.
He held further discussions with Mr. Pastukhov and others in Moscow on 3 August.
336.
I subsequently reported to the Security Council that I considered conditions to be right for the immediate deployment of United Nations observers to carry out functions envisaged in the cease-fire agreement.
The readiness of the two parties to meet and talk with each other provides an opportunity that must not be missed.
I have, accordingly, asked my Special Envoy to continue his efforts with a view to convening, before 15 September, a first round of negotiations under United Nations auspices, facilitated by the Russian Federation.
337.
The Security Council, in resolution 854 (1993) approved the deployment of an advance team of up to 10 United Nations military observers to verify compliance with the cease-fire agreement.
On 24 August 1993 the Security Council, in resolution 858 (1993) decided to establish a United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG), comprising up to 88 military observers.
7.
Guatemala
338.
At the request of the Government of Guatemala and the Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca, the United Nations has, since 1991, participated as an observer in negotiations directed at ending the longest war in Central America.
The talks have been held in Mexico and focused throughout 1992 on the issue of human rights, the first of 11 items of the negotiation agenda.
Both parties indicated their wish that the United Nations should verify the implementation of a future agreement on human rights.
I made it clear that the United Nations stood ready to assist them in that area.
339.
In early 1993, with a view to facilitating final agreement on the human rights issue and speeding up the negotiation process, the parties agreed to consider, simultaneously with the human rights issue, a calendar for the discussion of all outstanding agenda items and the possibility of an early cease-fire verified by the United Nations.
Colombia, Mexico, Spain and Venezuela constituted a "Group of Friends" to promote agreement between the parties.
That objective has so far proved to be elusive, however.
340.
In recent months, on several occasions, the parties have expressed the wish that the format of the talks agreed in 1991 be altered, inter alia, to allow for a more prominent role by the United Nations in negotiations.
I have stated that the United Nations is ready to continue its support for the negotiation process within a framework agreeable to both parties.
8.
Haiti
341.
Haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world:
two thirds of its population lives below the poverty line.
Since the coup d'état of September 1991, a trade embargo and a halt to bilateral assistance have been imposed on Haiti.
342.
The search for a solution to the problems of Haiti has involved measures of diplomacy directed at nothing less than the restoration of freedom, democracy, just order and the potential for progress to an entire nation and State.
343.
On 11 December 1992, I appointed Dante Caputo as my Special Envoy for Haiti.
His appointment was in pursuance of General Assembly resolution 47/20 A of 24 November 1992, in which I was requested to take the necessary measures to assist, in cooperation with the Organization of American States (OAS), in the solution of the Haitian crisis.
On 13 January 1993, Mr. Caputo was also appointed Special Envoy of OAS.
He promoted negotiations to reach a political solution involving the return of the legitimate President and the restoration of the democratic process.
The General Assembly, by its resolution 47/20 B of 20 April 1993, mandated United Nations participation, jointly with OAS in the International Civilian Mission to Haiti.
By March 1993, the Mission had already been deployed throughout Haiti and, on 3 June, I submitted the first report of the Mission to the General Assembly (A/47/960 and Corr. 1).
344.
On 16 June, by its resolution 841 (1993), the Security Council imposed sanctions on Haiti.
Following talks held on Governors Island, New York, agreement was reached on 3 July 1993 on various measures relating to the return of the democratically elected President.
345.
On 12 July and 13 August 1993 I reported to the Security Council on the Governors Island Agreement and the subsequent New York Pact, which provides for a six-month political truce and the resumption of the normal functioning of Parliament.
In my report of 12 July, I recommended to the Council that the sanctions it had imposed by resolution 841 (1993) should be suspended as soon as the Prime Minister of Haiti had taken office.
In my report of 13 August, I referred to the letter addressed to me by the President of the Security Council on 15 July 1993, confirming the readiness of the members of the Council to suspend the measures imposed by resolution 841 (1993) immediately after the ratification of the Prime Minister and his assumption of his functions in Haiti.
346.
The Prime Minister-designate of Haiti, Robert Malval, was ratified by the Senate on 18 August 1993 and by the Chamber of Deputies on 23 August.
He subsequently won a vote of confidence on his programme in the Senate on 24 August and in the Chamber of Deputies on 25 August.
The process of confirmation of the Prime Minister-designate had thus been completed. On 27 August 1993, by its resolution 861 (1993), the Security Council decided that the sanctions were suspended.
The Council also stated that the suspension would be immediately terminated if I were to inform it that the Governors Island Agreement had not been implemented in good faith.
Furthermore, the Council stood ready to lift the sanctions definitively once it was informed that the relevant provisions of the Agreement had been fully implemented.
347.
After being sworn in on 30 August, the Prime Minister travelled to Haiti the following day to assume his functions.
Immediately after the return of President Aristide to Haiti on 30 October 1993, I shall report to the Security Council with a view to the sanctions being lifted definitively.
348.
The Governors Island Agreement includes provision for United Nations assistance for modernizing the armed forces of Haiti and establishing a new police force with the presence of United Nations personnel in these fields.
In a report to the Security Council on 25 August 1993 (S/26352) I outlined my plans in this regard.
On 31 August, the Council, by its resolution 862 (1993), approved the dispatch of an advance team to prepare for the possible deployment of the proposed United Nations Mission to Haiti.
349.
The "silent emergency" in Haiti has been a challenge for the humanitarian organizations of the United Nations system.
The Organization of American States and the United Nations have made constant efforts to respond to the considerable humanitarian needs of the people.
Central to this process has been the formulation of a joint United Nations/OAS comprehensive humanitarian plan of action in Haiti. The plan contains emergency programmes in the fields of health, nutrition and food aid, water supply and sanitation, and agriculture, as well as support services for those areas and education and other social services.
The needs identified totalled $62.7 million.
350.
Haiti should now be set on the path to a stable democratic future in which all Haitians will fully enjoy human, civil and political rights.
I trust that the international community will be generous and forthcoming in providing Haiti with the technical and financial assistance needed for the reconstruction of its economy and its institutions, as well as moral and political support to the Haitian people in their search for a just, peaceful and prosperous society.
351.
I wish here to place on record my gratitude for the support and assistance which I and the Special Envoy have received at all times since the beginning of the negotiating process, particularly during the negotiations at Governors Island, from the Governments of Canada, France, the United States of America and Venezuela, which formed a group of "Friends of the Secretary-General" for Haiti.
Their invaluable support has been crucial to the successful completion of this stage of the process.
9.
India and Pakistan
352.
The United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) has been monitoring the cease-fire in Jammu and Kashmir since 1949.
In the Simla Agreement of 1972, the two countries affirmed their commitment to respecting the cease-fire line and to resolving the issue peacefully through negotiations.
I have repeatedly urged both sides, in the context of preventive diplomacy, to find a peaceful solution to this difficult and complex problem.
I have also expressed my readiness, should the two countries request it, to exert every possible effort to facilitate the search for a lasting solution.
10.
Iraq and Kuwait
353.
Another action was performed for the first time in history when the United Nations demarcated the boundary between two Member States, as part of its mandate to maintain international peace and security.
The Security Council, in resolution 687 (1991), demanded respect for the boundary agreed by Iraq and Kuwait in 1963, called upon me to assist in arranging demarcation of that boundary, and decided to take, as appropriate, all necessary measures to guarantee the inviolability of the boundary.
354.
On 2 May 1991, the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission was established, to demarcate the international boundary under the formula agreed in 1963.
Both Iraq and Kuwait unconditionally accepted the terms of reference of the Commission, which was called upon to perform a technical and not a political task.
During its 11 sessions, the Commission examined many sources, such as maps, graphics, aerial photographs, diplomatic correspondence, notes and archival documents.
355.
That highly professional work has produced a precise, well-documented and verifiable demarcation of the entire boundary. It includes the off-shore area from the khawrs to the eastern end of the Khawr Abd Allah.
A complete set of coordinates was produced, and boundary markers will clearly display the course of the line.
Satellite technology has enabled the Commission to position each marker with a margin of error of only 1.5 cm.
This would have been unthinkable only a few years ago. Other countries are already looking at this precedent to demarcate their boundaries.
356.
The United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM) has continued to operate in the demilitarized zone established by the Security Council on both sides of the Iraq-Kuwait boundary;
that zone has been realigned to conform to the border as demarcated.
The area of operation of UNIKOM has been generally calm except for a tense situation last January, following a series of actions by Iraq.
Subsequently, the Security Council decided on a phased strengthening of UNIKOM, in the first phase by a mechanized infantry battalion.
Owing to the greatly increased commitments by Member States to United Nations peace-keeping operations elsewhere, the Council's decision remains unfulfilled.
357.
Because of the efforts of the Special Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Iraq's ability to pose a threat to its neighbours by producing or possessing weapons of mass destruction has been steadily diminishing.
However, Iraq has yet to fulfil its commitment to provide the full, final and complete disclosure of all aspects of its programmes that is needed to assess adequately its capabilities and facilities.
A secure environment can be assured only through long-term monitoring and verification of Iraq's unconditional obligation not to use, retain, possess, develop, construct or otherwise acquire items prohibited under Security Council resolution 687 (1991).
358.
Under resolution 687 (1991), the disposal of nuclear-weapons-usable materials in Iraq is required.
Early in 1992, IAEA assembled a multi-disciplinary team, comprising experts from IAEA and representatives from the Special Commission and the Office of Legal Affairs, to implement that mandate.
After lengthy negotiations a complex contract was concluded in late June 1993 with the Committee for International Relations of the Ministry of Atomic Energy (CIR-Minatom), a State entity of the Russian Federation, which provided for the removal and reprocessing of the materials and for the permanent storage of the resulting wastes.
359.
With regard to the suffering of the Iraqi civilian population, the United Nations has continued to make every effort to assist those most in need, often at great personal risk to relief workers.
The inter-agency humanitarian assistance programme in Iraq has, from April 1991 to March 1993, brought relief aid to the Iraqi civilian population throughout the country.
The programme was developed in response to Security Council resolution 688 (1991), in which the Council recognized the pressing need for assistance, particularly to the 1.9 million Iraqis in the north and south of the country.
To date, some $700 million have been raised through United Nations appeals to finance projects implemented by United Nations and non-governmental organizations.
The humanitarian programmes in Iraq have been implemented within the framework of a series of memoranda of understanding which also provide for the deployment of the United Nations Guards Contingent in Iraq.
The various phases of the programme share one goal, namely, a focus on meeting basic needs for food, water, medical drugs and equipment and shelter for Iraq's most vulnerable civilian population.
360.
The Legal Counsel was requested on 19 May 1993 by the Chairman of the Security Council Committee established under resolution 661 (1990) to provide his opinion whether Iraq's frozen assets might be used as payment for the sale or supply to Iraq of medicine and health supplies, foodstuffs and materials and supplies for essential civilian needs approved by the Committee, within the scope of the pertinent Security Council resolutions, and, if so, under which conditions.
The Legal Counsel responded by a letter dated 4 June 1993 to the Chairman of the Committee in which he reviewed the legal regime applicable to frozen Iraqi assets in the light of Security Council resolutions 661 (1990), 687 (1991), 706 (1991), 712 (1991) and 778 (1992).
361.
At the end of June 1993, I met the Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, Tariq Aziz;
a fourth round of talks between the United Nations Secretariat and the Government of Iraq was then held at United Nations Headquarters from 7 to 15 July 1993. The purpose was to reach an understanding on practical arrangements for the implementation of the scheme relating to the sale of Iraqi oil, provided for in Security Council resolutions 706 (1991) and 712 (1991), and in my report of 4 September 1991 (S/23006).
Ten meetings were held during that round of talks.
The delegation of the United Nations was led by the Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and Legal Counsel, and the delegation of Iraq by Riyadh Al-Qaysi, Under-Secretary-General at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
On 15 July 1993, the talks were suspended.
362.
I continued to facilitate the return of Kuwaiti property seized by Iraq in accordance with paragraph 15 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991).
I am pleased to report that, in carrying out this task, I received full cooperation from the Governments of Iraq and Kuwait.
363.
The Commission established to administer the United Nations Compensation Fund provided for in paragraph 18 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991) has held four sessions since August 1992.
The legal rules and procedures which govern the Commission's activities have been drawn up and approved.
The first compensation commissioners have been appointed, and they will begin the examination and evaluation of the first category of claims in the next few months.
364.
It may be recalled that, in accordance with Security Council resolution 706 (1991), the United Nations established an escrow account into which the proceeds of the sale of Iraqi petroleum and petroleum products, and voluntary contributions, were to be paid.
As at 1 September 1993, approximately $195 million had been deposited in that account.
The funds have been designated to pay for the costs of the Special Commission, the Compensation Fund, the return of all Kuwaiti property, the Boundary Commission and humanitarian activities in Iraq.
365.
Recently a new programme of humanitarian assistance for the period from 1 April 1993 to 31 March 1994 has been prepared to provide rehabilitation assistance designed to limit further deterioration of living conditions throughout Iraq.
The aim is to facilitate self-sufficiency by promoting community-level projects.
That programme includes specific project proposals from various United Nations organizations and programmes amounting to $489 million.
The programme's current lack of funding jeopardizes the implementation of crucial rehabilitation activities, thereby prolonging the state of dependency and degradation of the living conditions of the Iraqi Kurds and the other vulnerable population groups in the country.
366.
On 1 September 1993 I met Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz to urge Iraqi compliance across the range of outstanding issues.
11.
Lebanon
367.
In southern Lebanon, there has been an increase in hostilities between Israeli forces and armed elements who have proclaimed their resistance to Israeli occupation.
The United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) has done its best to limit the conflict and to protect the inhabitants from its effects.
In resolution 852 (1993), the Security Council reaffirmed the mandate of UNIFIL as defined in its resolution 425 (1978) and other relevant resolutions, which is to confirm the withdrawal of Israeli forces, restore international peace and security, and assist the Government of Lebanon in ensuring the return of its effective authority in the area.
Although UNIFIL has not been able to make visible progress towards these objectives, its contribution to stability and the protection it is able to afford the population of the area remain important.
368.
The volatility of the situation manifested itself in a particularly grave escalation of hostilities in July 1993 when, in response to rocket attacks against northern Israel, the Israeli Defence Forces launched massive air strikes against southern Lebanon.
The fighting caused the displacement of hundreds of thousands of civilians;
dozens of Lebanese villages were destroyed or damaged;
countless homes, schools, hospitals, roads and bridges were demolished.
On 30 July 1993, in a letter to the President of the Security Council, I drew attention to the fact that the hostilities had severely affected the operations of UNIFIL, whose mandate had been extended by the Security Council two days earlier.
The heavy bombardment of the UNIFIL area of operations by Israeli aircraft and artillery had inter alia hit the Nepalese battalion headquarters and positions in the Irish and Finnish battalion sectors.
Fortunately, there were no serious casualties.
After the cessation of hostilities, units of the Lebanese army were deployed in parts of the UNIFIL area of operation for the purpose of maintaining public order.
369.
In these circumstances, I requested the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs to act swiftly to coordinate the efforts of the United Nations system in the provision of emergency humanitarian assistance.
A consolidated appeal for immediate assistance in the amount of $28.5 million was launched on 20 August.
To start up urgent emergency work, advances of $5 million and $2 million from the Central Emergency Revolving Fund were made available to Habitat and WFP, respectively.
12.
Liberia
370.
In view of the ongoing conflict in Liberia and the continuing destruction and loss of life, the Security Council, in its resolution 788 (1992) of 19 November 1992, called upon all parties to the conflict in Liberia to respect and implement the cease-fire and the various accords of the peace process;
decided, under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, that all States should, for the purposes of establishing peace and stability in Liberia, immediately implement a general and complete embargo on all deliveries of weapons and military equipment to Liberia, with the exception of weapons and military equipment destined for the sole use of the peace-keeping forces of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS); and requested me to dispatch a Special Representative to Liberia to evaluate the situation.
371.
In late 1992 and early 1993, my Special Representative, Trevor Gordon-Somers, visited Liberia and held extensive discussions there and in States members of ECOWAS.
On the basis of his findings, I submitted a special report to the Security Council on 12 March 1993.
The Council, in resolution 813 (1993) of 26 March 1993, reaffirmed its belief that the Yamoussoukro IV Accord offered the best possible framework for a peaceful resolution of the conflict in Liberia and its support for increased humanitarian assistance to Liberia;
demanded that the parties concerned refrain from any action that would impede or obstruct the delivery of humanitarian assistance; and called upon them to ensure the safety of all personnel involved in international humanitarian assistance.
372.
After the discovery of the massacre of innocent displaced persons at Harbel on 6 June, the Security Council on 9 June 1993 requested me to commence an investigation and warned that those found responsible would be held accountable for the serious violation of international humanitarian law.
My Special Representative proceeded to Monrovia to conduct a thorough investigation into the incident.
Preliminary action was taken by other United Nations officials on the spot.
Since the first stage of the investigation, and after consultations, I have appointed a panel of inquiry, which is now undertaking a more comprehensive investigation of the massacre.
As soon as the investigation is completed, I shall submit a full report to the Security Council.
373.
During the protracted conflict in Liberia, the United Nations provided assistance to over 700,000 Liberian refugees in neighbouring countries, to 100,000 internally displaced Liberians and to some 100,000 destitute Sierra Leoneans who had sought refuge in Liberia.
As a result of the emergency relief programme which has been carried out by the United Nations and its non-governmental organization partners since December 1990, severe malnutrition has been eliminated except in isolated pockets, and the health of the population has improved significantly.
However, since the resumption of hostilities in August 1992, the humanitarian situation has deteriorated.
Masses of people have been displaced and large areas of the country have become inaccessible to relief agencies.
374.
The conflicting parties agreed, at Geneva, after a week of negotiations conducted under the joint auspices of ECOWAS, OAU and the United Nations, to restore peace to the country.
The peace agreement, which was signed on 25 July 1993 at an ECOWAS summit meeting at Cotonou, Benin, calls on the ECOWAS Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) to continue its peace-keeping role in Liberia and on the United Nations to play a monitoring role through the establishment of an observer mission.
The agreement also provides for the establishment of a broadly based central transitional government, to be replaced by a democratically elected body within seven months.
Agreement was also reached on the provision of humanitarian relief to all Liberians in need through the most direct routes, which has facilitated the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the affected population.
United Nations organizations have been asked to initiate the rapid voluntary repatriation and reintegration from neighbouring countries of the more than 700,000 refugees.
The Department of Humanitarian Affairs is preparing an inter-agency consolidated appeal for Liberia.
375.
The Security Council, in its resolution 856 (1993) of 10 August 1993, decided to establish the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia (UNOMIL) and approved the sending of an advance team of 30 military observers to participate in the work of the Joint Cease-fire Monitoring Committee.
13.
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
376.
In an effort to prevent a dangerous deterioration of the situation regarding suspected Libyan involvement in the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 and UTA flight 772, and to facilitate the implementation of Security Council resolutions 731 (1992) and 748 (1992), I have remained in almost constant contact over the past seven months with the parties to the dispute and the League of Arab States.
I met the Foreign Minister of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya at Cairo in July 1993 and in New York in August in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
I have on five occasions sent a personal envoy to Tripoli and intend to pursue every effort to facilitate a just settlement in accordance with the mandate given to me by the Security Council.
14.
The Middle East
377.
In the course of the past year, the plight of the Palestinian people living under occupation has not been alleviated.
There has, moreover, been a dramatic worsening of the human rights situation in the occupied territories.
In a particularly grave incident, Israel deported over 400 Palestinian civilians to southern Lebanon in December 1992.
The Security Council, in its resolution 799 (1992), inter alia reaffirmed the applicability of the Fourth Geneva Convention to all the Palestinian territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, demanded that Israel ensure the safe and immediate return to the occupied territories of all those deported, and requested me to send a representative to the area and to report to the Council.
Conscious of the possible effect of that event on the fragile process of Arab-Israeli peace negotiations, and with a view to finding a solution, I dispatched several missions to the area, led respectively by the Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs and my Special Political Adviser.
I had a number of meetings and telephone conversations with leaders in the region and representatives of interested Governments.
Regrettably, those efforts were not successful and, in my report to the Security Council of 25 January 1993 (S/25149), I recommended that the Council should take whatever measures were required to ensure that its unanimous decision was respected.
378.
I have also been seriously alarmed by the reports of the rapid worsening of the socio-economic situation in the occupied territories.
As the Palestinian economy is weak and highly dependent on that of Israel, the livelihood of the Palestinian communities suffered further damage when Israel closed off the occupied territories in March 1993.
I have appealed to the international community to provide greater economic assistance to the occupied territories.
In this connection, I have also reminded the major donors of the critical financial situation of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East.
379.
Because of the long-standing commitment of the United Nations to a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement in the Middle East, based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), I welcomed the invitation extended in October 1992 by the co-sponsors of the Middle East peace process for the participation of the United Nations as a full extraregional participant in the multilateral working groups on environment, economic and regional development, water, refugees, arms control and regional security in the Middle East.
Representatives of the United Nations attended and took an active part in the meetings of the working groups held in October-November 1992 in Paris, The Hague and Ottawa and in April-May 1993 in Geneva, Rome, Oslo, Washington and Tokyo.
In November 1992, I appointed Chinmaya Gharekhan as my Special Representative at the multilateral talks.
380.
The United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) has continued to supervise the separation between the Israeli and Syrian forces, and the limitation of armaments and forces provided for in the disengagement agreement of 1974.
With the cooperation of both sides, UNDOF has discharged its tasks effectively and its area of operation has been quiet.
381.
The United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), which is the oldest existing peace-keeping operation, has continued to assist UNDOF and UNIFIL in carrying out their tasks and has maintained its presence in Egypt.
During the last year, the personnel of UNTSO has been reduced by 25 per cent.
15.
Mozambique
382.
The signing in Rome of the General Peace Agreement between the Government of Mozambique and the Resistência Nacional Moçambicana (RENAMO) in October 1992 brought renewed hope to this war-torn country.
The United Nations was called upon to play a central role in the implementation of various aspects of the Agreement.
The mandate of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ), since its establishment in December 1992, as coordinated by my Special Representative, Aldo Ajello, is to monitor cease-fire arrangements and the demobilization of up to 100,000 soldiers from both sides, to fulfil political and electoral functions, to conduct a massive humanitarian operation and to organize mine clearance.
383.
As part of the peace-building efforts in Mozambique, a meeting of donors was held at Maputo on 8 and 9 June 1993, under the joint chairmanship of the Government of Italy and the United Nations.
The meeting, which followed the Donors Conference on Mozambique held in Rome on 15 and 16 December 1992 on the basis of article VII of the General Peace Agreement, reviewed the progress made in the implementation of the consolidated humanitarian assistance programme in Mozambique.
That programme reflects a shift from the previous concentration on emergency relief; by focusing on the reintegration needs of refugees and displaced persons, leading to reconstruction and future development, it signals the end of a protracted emergency phase and the beginning of a return to normalcy.
The humanitarian assistance programme encompasses support for the repatriation process, the demobilization of armed units, emergency relief, restoration of essential services and balance-of-payments and budget support.
The programme will require $559.6 million for the period from May 1993 to April 1994.
The repatriation and resettlement of 1.5 million Mozambicans, now living as refugees in neighbouring countries, will be the largest such operation undertaken in Africa under United Nations auspices.
384.
While donors have since announced new pledges totalling some $70 million, thereby increasing the total value of pledges to $520 million, against the programme's total requirements of $560 million, they have also expressed concern about delays related to the electoral process, demobilization and the work of certain commissions identified in the General Peace Agreement.
The positive participation of all concerned parties in the implementation of the Agreement will contribute significantly to the strengthening of peace in Mozambique.
385.
In June 1993 I reported to the Security Council that the delays which had impeded the rapid deployment of the ONUMOZ military component had been overcome and that, by the beginning of May 1993, the five infantry battalions provided for in my operational plan had been fully deployed along the Beira, Tete, Limpopo and Nacala corridors and along national highway N1.
Since then, the deployment of all contingents has been completed.
At the end of August 1993 the total strength of the formed units, including support elements, was over 6,000.
386.
As envisaged, the operations of the contingents chiefly involve the conducting of motorized and air patrols along the corridors, establishing checkpoints and providing escorts for trains.
United Nations troops have also escorted road convoys carrying relief food to populations in need in various regions, and transported equipment to assembly areas.
In addition, they have carried out repair and reconnaissance of roads, both in populated locations and en route to assembly areas.
387.
The process of assembly and demobilization of Government and RENAMO forces scheduled to begin in mid-November 1992 has been delayed for several reasons, particularly the insistence of RENAMO on receiving financial support as a political party before participating in the work of the commissions and its insistence that 65 per cent of ONUMOZ troops be deployed before the assembly process begins.
388.
As at 25 August 1993, 303 of the authorized total number of 354 military observers had arrived in Mozambique.
Assisted by troops from the contingents, the observers are now actively involved in the establishment and preparation of assembly areas, conducting inspections and investigations of cease-fire violation complaints.
389.
In late August 1993 I was able to report an important development, namely, the arrival at Maputo, after several postponements, of Mr. Afonso Dhlakama, President of RENAMO, and the start on 21 August of a series of meetings between him and the President of Mozambique, Mr. Joaquim Chissano.
It is widely expected that the meetings will continue until some form of agreement has been reached on major outstanding issues.
The importance of this development cannot be overemphasized.
Progress in many major areas of the peace process depends on the successful outcome of these discussions.
16.
Republic of Moldova
390.
After the signature of the disengagement agreement on 21 July 1992, and acting on a request from the President of the Republic of Moldova, I sent a second fact-finding mission to that country in late August 1992.
The mission concluded that, despite the cessation of armed hostilities, prevailing conditions remained fragile.
391.
A major stumbling-block continues to be the question of the withdrawal of the Fourteenth Russian Army from the left bank of the Dniester.
In a letter dated 2 October 1992 to the Secretary-General, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Moldova proposed the dispatch of United Nations observers, with the consent of the Russian Federation, to the negotiations between the two countries on the withdrawal of the Fourteenth Army.
In my response of 5 January 1993, I offered to send a mission to meet the leaders of the Moldovan and Russian delegations to the negotiations and to discuss possible arrangements for the presence there of United Nations observers.
392.
In view of the establishment in the Republic of Moldova of an eight-member mission of the Conference for Security and Cooperation in Europe on 27 April 1993, an understanding has been reached with the Government that CSCE will take the leading role in the issue.
17.
Rwanda
393.
United Nations observers have been deployed to one side of a common border with the agreement of the two States involved, namely, Rwanda and Uganda.
In my interim report to the Security Council on Rwanda, of 20 May 1993 (S/25810) following the mission of my representative, I proposed the establishment of a United Nations observer mission on the Ugandan side of the Rwanda-Uganda border.
In recommending the deployment of United Nations observers, I noted that a decision to deploy observers to the border would highlight the international community's interest in peace and security in the area, could help to promote the negotiation process at Arusha and would encourage the parties actively to pursue their efforts for peace and national reconciliation in Rwanda.
394.
The Security Council, in its resolution 846 (1993), taking note of the requests of the Governments of Rwanda and Uganda for the deployment of United Nations observers along their common border as a temporary confidence-building measure, decided to establish the United Nations Observer Mission Uganda-Rwanda (UNOMUR), with the task of verifying that no military assistance is provided across the border between the two countries.
At the same time, the United Nations is providing emergency relief assistance to the 900,000 persons displaced by the conflict.
A consolidated appeal for $78 million has been launched for this humanitarian programme.
395.
The cease-fire agreement reached on 12 July 1992 was broken on 8 February 1993 but restored on 9 March.
Two United Nations military experts were placed at the disposal of the Organization of African Unity, to provide it with technical assistance in the preparation of a submission to donors for the funding of an expanded Neutral Military Observer Group in Rwanda.
That Group has been monitoring the cease-fire.
The latest phase of the talks began in mid-March 1993 and has now been completed.
A comprehensive peace agreement was signed at Arusha on 4 August 1993.
The role of the United Republic of Tanzania, as facilitator in the negotiations, was important for their successful completion.
396.
Taking into account the communications received from the President of Rwanda and the OAU Secretary-General and in pursuance of resolution 846 (1993), I have sent a reconnaissance mission to Rwanda to examine the possible function of the neutral international force called for by the Government of Rwanda and the Rwandese Patriotic Front and to evaluate the human and financial resources that would be needed to carry them out.
The findings of the mission, which will also hold consultations with OAU and the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, will assist me in making recommendations to the Security Council regarding the United Nations contribution to the implementation of the Peace Agreement.
18.
Tajikistan
397.
During the summer of 1992, the number of armed clashes between various groups increased dramatically and by late August and early September 1992 fighting raged across southern Tajikistan.
Concerned that events might lead to a wider regional conflict, I dispatched, in consultation with the Governments of Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, a fact-finding mission from 16 to 22 September 1992.
It reported, inter alia, that the situation in Tajikistan was that of a civil war, and that since June 1992 more than 2,000 people had been killed and more than 200,000 had become refugees or displaced persons.
398.
I consequently dispatched a goodwill mission to Tajikistan and four neighbouring countries, from 3 to 14 November 1992, to assist and support regional peacemaking efforts.
The mission also carried out a preliminary assessment of humanitarian needs and its report formed the basis of a preliminary appeal for $20 million to support the humanitarian programmes of UNHCR, WFP and WHO.
In the light of the mission's consultations with the various interlocutors in the region, I informed the Security Council on 21 December 1992 of my decision to establish a small, integrated United Nations unit at Dushanbe to monitor the situation on the ground and to provide liaison services.
My decision was welcomed by the Government of Tajikistan.
399.
Early in 1993, I appointed, for a period of three months, a Special Envoy to Tajikistan, Ismat Kittani, whose mandate was to obtain agreement on a cease-fire with appropriate international monitoring, begin negotiations for a political solution, and enlist the help of neighbouring countries and others concerned in achieving those objectives.
That appointment was welcomed by the Security Council.
400.
In May and June 1993, my Special Envoy visited the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan and, a few weeks later, Saudi Arabia for talks with their leaders.
During that initial mission he was not able to complete his contacts and ascertain the positions of all concerned parties in accordance with his mandate.
On 16 August 1993, I submitted a report to the Security Council summarizing the Special Envoy's findings, and expressed my concern about the escalating crisis on the Afghan-Tajik border.
In a statement made by its President on 23 August 1993, the Security Council welcomed my proposal to extend the mandate of my Special Envoy until 31 October 1993 and to extend, by three months, the tenure of United Nations officials currently in Tajikistan.
401.
I have asked my Special Envoy to visit Kabul as soon as possible for discussions with government leaders regarding his mandate in Tajikistan and to ascertain the views and positions of the Tajik opposition leaders residing in Afghanistan.
In addition, I requested him to undertake a second mission to Dushanbe and to visit other regional countries.
Meanwhile, I have informed the Security Council of my concern about recent developments and my intention to monitor the situation closely.
The Department of Humanitarian Affairs is carrying out an inter-agency re-evaluation of the humanitarian needs of Tajikistan.
19.
Western Sahara
402.
In April 1991, the Security Council decided, in resolution 690 (1991), to establish a United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO).
The resolution provided for a referendum for self-determination to be organized by the United Nations in cooperation with the Organization of African Unity.
The mission will consist of civilian, security and military units functioning as an integrated operation.
The civilian unit of MINURSO is expected to comprise approximately 275 international staff members, the security unit up to 300 police officers and the military unit approximately 1,700 military personnel, including observers and infantry and logistics battalions.
Differences have arisen with respect to the criteria relating to voter eligibility.
I have been in close contact with both parties, and I visited the area from 31 May to 4 June 1993, accompanied by my Special Representative, Sahabzada Yaqub-Khan, in order to urge the parties to accept a compromise solution with regard to the interpretation and application of those criteria.
403.
Notwithstanding difficulties in the preparation and organization of direct talks between the parties and other problems, mostly of a procedural nature, the delegations of Morocco and the Frente Polisario met from 17 to 19 July at Laayoune, in the presence of my Special Representative as United Nations observer.
The dialogue was held in a positive spirit, marked by restraint and mutual respect.
It is my earnest hope that the talks will be resumed soon as a follow-up to the Laayoune initiative, and that the referendum will take place before the end of the year.
20.
Zaire
404.
With respect to the situation in Zaire, I transmitted to the President of the Security Council, on 7 May 1993, a letter dated 24 March 1993 from Etienne Tshisekedi, the Prime Minister elected by the Sovereign National Conference, requesting the United Nations to appoint observers to safeguard respect for human rights; to assist in the preparation, monitoring and supervision of truly free and democratic elections; and to dispatch an evaluation mission to Shaba with a view to the provision of humanitarian assistance for people displaced within their own country.
Mr. Tshisekedi also requested the dispatch of a United Nations intervention force to Zaire to restore law and order, peace and internal security, to ensure the protection of people and property, and to avert the possibility of a civil war.
I also informed the President of the Security Council that I had met at Brussels on 23 April 1993 Monseigneur Laurent Monsengwo, President of the High Council of the Republic of Zaire, to discuss the deteriorating situation and the institutional stalemate in that country, and the possibility of a role for the United Nations.
405.
The humanitarian situation continues to be very serious, with the number of displaced persons reaching into the hundreds of thousands.
Locally based United Nations and non-governmental organizations are doing their utmost to provide the necessary relief assistance.
I decided to organize an inter-agency needs assessment mission, to obtain a first-hand appreciation of the humanitarian and related needs and to consult with all concerned on means of providing assistance to the affected population, in particular the displaced people.
That mission did not take place because of reservations expressed by President Mobutu.
406.
During the OAU summit meeting at Cairo in July 1993, I had the opportunity to hold extensive discussions with President Mobutu.
I then appointed my Special Envoy for Zaire, Lakhdar Brahimi, to undertake a goodwill mission, having as its principal objective the exploration of ways and means for the United Nations to assist in finding a solution to the current political situation.
I have been assured by President Mobutu that my Special Envoy will have his full cooperation and the freedom to travel to any part of the country, as well as to meet with the opposition parties.
407.
My Special Envoy arrived in Zaire on 18 July.
He met President Mobutu in Shaba and exchanged views with Prime Minister Faustin Birindwa and senior officials of his Government.
He also met Etienne Tshisekedi, Monseigneur Monsengwo and leaders of the opposition parties.
Mr. Brahimi was very well received by all his interlocutors and made every effort to encourage a dialogue among the parties, in order to put an end to the violence and facilitate national reconciliation.
408.
After the return of Mr. Brahimi to New York at the beginning of August 1993, I sent an inter-agency mission to Zaire to assess urgent humanitarian requirements, particularly in regions of concentration of internally displaced persons, and to identify ways of addressing those needs effectively.
Besides the Kinshasa area, the mission is planning to visit the provinces of Shaba, North Kivu and West and East Kasai, and is expected to complete its work within three weeks.
In the interim, I alerted the United Nations organizations concerned, and the donor community, to the need for an increased effort to alleviate the plight of the affected populations, particularly in the provinces of Shaba and Kivu.
E.
Major comprehensive efforts
409.
As the foregoing examples demonstrate, the range of responsibilities facing the new United Nations is not only vast but virtually open-ended, extending to almost every area of human activity.
410.
To cope with this revolutionary and novel situation, the United Nations must address its challenges in the most coherent and comprehensive way possible.
Governments and private individuals must also realize that crises such as those just discussed transcend traditional boundaries of theory and practice.
Food, water, land-mines, disease and death, and democratization, human rights and development are inextricably intertwined.
Efforts to deal with particular issues cannot succeed in the absence of a comprehensive vision of the whole.
411.
Four current cases will illustrate the comprehensive and challenging situations in which the United Nations is engaged:
Cambodia, El Salvador, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia.
They resemble each other in the all-encompassing nature of the tasks they demand, but each involves distinct and different factors.
1.
Cambodia
412.
The successful conduct of the recent election in Cambodia represents an affirmation of the important contribution United Nations peace-keeping operations can make to resolving complicated situations even in the face of serious obstacles.
The mandate of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC), set out in the Paris Agreements, was one of the most complex and ambitious ever undertaken by a United Nations operation.
It included aspects relating to human rights, the organization and conduct of free and fair general elections, military arrangements, civil administration, the maintenance of law and order, the repatriation and resettlement of the Cambodian refugees and displaced persons, and the rehabilitation of essential Cambodian infrastructures during the transitional period.
At the same time it was planned as a peace-keeping operation in the time-honoured tradition, an operation based on the agreement and cooperation of the parties, relying on political authority and persuasion rather than on force.
413.
When one of the four Cambodian parties that had signed the Agreements and undertaken a range of obligations, the Party of Democratic Kampuchea, refused to honour its commitments, UNTAC was faced with grave difficulties.
Indeed, that party, after its early refusal to implement Phase II of the cease-fire and to demobilize its troops under UNTAC supervision, progressively withdrew from the peace process, absenting itself from meetings of the Supreme National Council.
Despite my continued efforts and those of my Special Representative, Yasushi Akashi, and of the Co-Chairmen of the Paris Conference and other concerned Governments to engage it in a dialogue, it eventually refused to participate in the election.
I resolved nevertheless to go forward in implementing all aspects of the mandate of UNTAC to the maximum extent possible. I was determined not to allow the non-cooperation of one party to negate the unprecedented and far-reaching international efforts to restore peace to Cambodia.
414.
The Security Council consistently supported this course of action.
While the cantonment of forces had to be suspended after some 55,000 of the approximately 200,000 troops belonging to the three factions cooperating in the peace process had been regrouped and cantoned, the 16,000-member military component of UNTAC redeployed itself to focus on providing security for voter registration and later for the election itself in all 21 provinces.
With full deployment of its 21,000 military, police and civilian personnel achieved by mid-1992, UNTAC vigorously pursued its manifold tasks of promoting respect for human rights, contributing to the maintenance of law and order and exercising control and supervision of the activities of the existing administrative structures, especially in the five key areas of foreign affairs, national defence, finance, public security and information.
An active education and information campaign was a vital aspect of those efforts.
415.
The successful repatriation of more than 360,000 refugees and displaced persons by 31 March 1993, exactly a year after the process began and in spite of major logistic and climatic impediments, was a testimony to the organizational capacity of UNTAC and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which served as the lead agency within an integrated effort, and to the faith that the returning Cambodians had in a future in their homeland.
416.
The Cambodian people at large repeatedly manifested their faith in the peace process and their courage and determination to build a stable future by first registering for and then massively voting in the election, which was held on schedule from 23 to 28 May 1993.
Nearly 4.7 million people, or some 96 per cent of the estimated eligible population, registered to vote.
A total of 4,267,192, representing nearly 90 per cent of the registered voters, cast their ballot.
Despite concerns about disruption by the National Army of Democratic Kampuchea, and about earlier acts of intimidation attributed largely to another party, both the six-week election campaign, in which 20 political parties actively took part, and the polling itself, proved to be remarkably peaceful and free of violent incidents.
The UNTAC electoral staff, who were joined by more than 50,000 Cambodian electoral workers and 1,000 international polling station officers, were moved by the enthusiasm, patience and buoyant spirit manifested by the Cambodian voters everywhere during the election.
417.
On 10 June, after the verification and counting of the ballots had been completed, my Special Representative declared, with my authorization and on my behalf, that the election in Cambodia had been free and fair.
The Security Council endorsed that determination on 15 June, and the results of the election have now been accepted by all the Cambodian parties.
The newly elected Constituent Assembly held its inaugural meeting on 14 June to begin its task of drafting and adopting a new Constitution and establishing the new Government of Cambodia.
418.
Since then, the four Cambodian political parties that won seats in the election have agreed to join in a joint interim administration, under the leadership of His Royal Highness Prince Norodom Sihanouk, for the remainder of the transitional period until the creation of the new Government in accordance with the Paris Agreements.
I welcomed and supported this step as contributing to stability, national reconciliation and a smooth transition to the future Government of Cambodia.
419.
UNTAC will continue faithfully to fulfil its mandate for the remainder of the transitional period and will do its utmost to help the Cambodian people to consolidate their victory in this impressive feat of self-determination.
I am convinced that the international community will not fail to continue to assist the people of Cambodia and their future Government in the arduous task of building a stable, peaceful and prosperous future.
420.
More than 20,000 United Nations troops began leaving Cambodia in August 1993, ending one of the largest operations in the history of the Organization.
On 27 August 1993 the Security Council, in its resolution 860 (1993), fixed the date of 15 November 1993 as the deadline for the withdrawal of the military component of UNTAC.
2.
El Salvador
421.
El Salvador is another Member State where the United Nations is engaged in an operation of considerable complexity.
The Organization mediated a series of peace agreements between the Government and the Frente Farabundo Martí para la Liberación Nacional (FMLN) and then assumed responsibility for assisting and verifying their implementation.
The United Nations Observer Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL), which was created for that purpose and is headed by my Special Representative Augusto Ramírez-Ocampo, comprises military observers, police officers, human rights experts and a variety of experts in other civilian disciplines.
It will soon have added to it an Electoral Division to observe, at the request of the Government of El Salvador, the elections which are to be held in the spring of 1994 and which will mark the culmination of the peace process.
422.
The multidisciplinary nature of ONUSAL reflects the complexity of the peace agreements, which provided, even before a cease-fire came into effect, for United Nations monitoring of respect for human rights by both sides.
A Commission of three distinguished non-Salvadorians was appointed to establish the truth about certain grave acts of violence committed during more than 10 years of bitter civil war.
There was to be a cease-fire; the purification and progressive reduction of the armed forces; and the demobilization of FMLN and its legalization as a political party.
The existing public security bodies were to be monitored by the United Nations and a new national civil police formed.
The judicial system was to be reformed, as was the electoral system.
A variety of amendments were to be made to the Constitution in order to ensure, in particular, that the Army and other security forces were fully under civilian control and that the Army would not be involved in police functions, such as the preservation of internal order, except in exceptional circumstances.
Reforms were to take place in the economic and social spheres.
In particular, land was to be provided for ex-combatants from both sides as they demobilized and for persons who during the war had taken over and worked land owned by others.
423.
It is to the credit of the Salvadorian people, in particular of the Government and FMLN, that it rapidly became clear that the peace process was irreversible.
There have nevertheless been some set-backs in its implementation.
The cease-fire was impeccably observed but there was an eight-month delay in the Government's implementation of the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Commission set up to purify the armed forces.
Most seriously, the discovery of a substantial FMLN arms cache in Nicaragua on 23 May 1993 revealed that, despite repeated protestations to the contrary, FMLN had failed to declare and destroy all its arms, ammunition and other war matériel.
During the following three months FMLN revealed to ONUSAL further arms caches inside and outside El Salvador, the contents of which were destroyed.
That serious violation of the agreements put some strain on the peace process;
I trust that this chapter is now closed.
424.
In recent months there have been delays in the formation and deployment of the new national civil police and a lack of progress in implementing the recommendations of the Truth Commission, which complemented the agreements and were intended to ensure that the conditions which permitted gross violations of human rights during the armed conflict would not recur.
I firmly believe that implementation of those recommendations is necessary for national reconciliation.
425.
There have also been delays in putting into effect the complicated provisions of the peace agreements relating to land.
There is an inescapable moral obligation to fulfil promises made to demobilized combatants of both sides.
426.
Like the delays in the formation of the national civil police, the delays in the land programme are due partly to lack of financial resources.
My appeals for financial support from the international community have not so far produced all that is required.
I believe that the Government has therefore an obligation to adjust its own expenditure priorities to ensure that critical elements in the peace process do not fail for want of finance;
but it has to be acknowledged that this may prove difficult to reconcile with the economic reform programme which is a condition of continuing support for El Salvador on the part of the international financial institutions.
427.
The case of El Salvador is a prime example of the need for a fully integrated approach by the United Nations system as a whole to the requirements of peace-building in countries emerging from long years of armed conflict.
A cease-fire and a successful election are not enough to claim success;
that is only assured when the necessary political, economic and social measures have been taken to eradicate the underlying causes of the original conflict.
3.
Somalia
428.
Despite the best efforts of the international community to help Somalia with traditional peace-keeping and humanitarian assistance, the situation had become intolerable by the end of 1992.
Somalia remained without a central Government, Mogadishu was divided by rival militia, and throughout the country a dozen or more factions were active.
429.
Widespread looting of aid supplies, robbery, armed banditry and general lawlessness compounded the situation.
Large sums of cash and relief aid were being extorted from donor organizations and the lives of their personnel were being put in danger.
The result was that, while relief supplies were ready and in the pipeline, they were prevented from reaching Somalis dying of starvation.
According to some estimates, as many as 3,000 persons a day were dying of starvation in Somalia, while warehouses remained stocked.
430.
On 24 November 1992, I reported to the Security Council that I did not exclude the possibility that it might become necessary to review the basic premises and principles of the United Nations effort in Somalia.
I also reported that traditional peace-keeping efforts were not yielding the desired results and that it might become necessary to resort to measures of peace-enforcement.
431.
On 3 December 1992, the Security Council, by its resolution 794 (1992), established a precedent in the history of the United Nations:
it decided for the first time to intervene militarily for strictly humanitarian purposes.
By that resolution the Council authorized the use of all necessary means to establish as soon as possible a secure environment for humanitarian relief operations in Somalia.
Acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, the Council authorized the Secretary-General and the Member States concerned to make arrangements for the unified command and control of the forces involved, and called on all Member States that were in a position to do so to provide military forces and to make contributions in cash or in kind.
The Council further decided that the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM I) should proceed at my discretion in the light of my assessment of conditions on the ground.
432.
In the first phase of the operation, the Unified Task Force, spearheaded by the United States of America, began arriving on 9 December 1992 to establish a secure environment for the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian assistance.
I urged the Task Force command to take steps to disarm the factions involved in the fighting.
In the course of five difficult months, the Task Force made progress in opening up access to more and more remote areas and in providing protection for the delivery of humanitarian assistance.
Disarmament remains a major problem, but United Nations and non-governmental organizations were able to expand their relief activities in various parts of the country.
As a result, there was a dramatic fall in malnutrition levels and in the numbers of deaths from starvation.
433.
On 3 March 1993, I submitted to the Security Council my recommendations for effecting the transition from the Unified Task Force to UNOSOM II.
I indicated that, since the adoption of Council resolution 794 (1992), the Task Force had deployed approximately 37,000 troops, covering about 40 per cent of the country's territory.
While the security situation had improved, incidents of violence continued to occur;
I therefore concluded that UNOSOM II should be endowed with enforcement powers to enable it to establish a secure environment throughout Somalia.
434.
On 26 March, in its resolution 814 (1993), the Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, set out the arrangements for the transition from the Unified Task Force to a new United Nations operation (UNOSOM II) under a changed mandate.
Instead of a return to peace-keeping, as envisaged in its resolution 794 (1992), the Council chose to set up an unprecedented operation involving, as necessary, enforcement action by the United Nations itself under the authority of the Security Council.
435.
In this second phase, UNOSOM II is called upon to continue the restoration of peace, stability and law and order, to assist in the re-establishment of the Somali police force, to provide security and assistance in the repatriation of refugees and the resettlement of displaced persons;
to assist in the development of a programme for the removal of mines throughout Somalia, to monitor the arms embargo and to facilitate disarmament;
and to assist in the provision of relief and in the economic rehabilitation of Somalia.
The accelerated deployment of all UNOSOM II contingents to meet the full requirement of 28,000 personnel, all ranks, as well as equipment, was encouraged by the Security Council.
Member States were urged to contribute, on an emergency basis, military support and transportation, including armoured personnel carriers, tanks and attack helicopters, to enable UNOSOM II to confront and deter armed attacks directed against it in carrying out its mandate.
At 31 August 1993, the full target of 28,000 personnel had not been reached.
436.
After the transfer of military command to UNOSOM II on 4 May 1993, some of the political movements staged armed attacks against personnel of the operation, as a result of which 49 soldiers have lost their lives.
Four journalists have also been killed, and about 160 UNOSOM personnel have been wounded.
437.
On 6 June 1993, the Security Council, by its resolution 837 (1993), reaffirmed the authority of the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures against those responsible for the armed attacks and for publicly inciting them, including their arrest and detention for prosecution, trial and punishment.
The Council also demanded that all Somali parties, including movements and factions, comply fully with their commitments.
It re-emphasized the crucial importance of disarming them and of neutralizing radio broadcasting systems that contributed to the violence.
438.
In the course of the military action carried out by UNOSOM II forces since 12 June, great care has been taken to avoid civilian casualties.
The President of the Security Council and I have both expressed deep regret and sorrow at the casualties which have occurred among innocent Somali civilians.
439.
One major task that lies ahead for UNOSOM II and for the Somali people is the implementation of the agreements signed at Addis Ababa in January and March 1993, which include specific provisions regarding a cease-fire, disarmament, demobilization and national reconciliation, as well as requests for United Nations assistance in enforcing them.
Those agreements are Somali agreements, and the responsibility for their successful implementation lies with the Somali people.
Under Chapter VII authority, UNOSOM II and my Special Representative in Somalia, Admiral Jonathan Howe, will be there to assist and facilitate.
440.
The importance of security both for the effective delivery of relief and for the transition to rehabilitation and reconstruction was fully recognized at the Third Coordination Meeting on Humanitarian Assistance for Somalia, held at Addis Ababa from 11 to 13 March 1993.
Participants endorsed the United Nations relief and rehabilitation programme for 1993, which was developed in consultation with the Somalis.
The meeting was attended by 190 Somalis, many of whom played an active role in the proceedings of the Conference on National Reconciliation in Somalia which I convened at Addis Ababa on 15 March 1993.

441. At the Conference on National Reconciliation in Somalia, a two-year transitional period was set by the Somali participants for the re-establishment of a legitimate representative government.
In choosing a target date of March 1995, Somalis have established for themselves a realistic time-frame in which to restore civil institutions, to pursue policies which will ensure economic recovery and to provide for their own security.
It is my expectation that at the end of March 1995 the current phase in Somalia's history will have come to a successful conclusion and Somalia will have returned to normalcy.
442.
The United Nations is undertaking parallel efforts to put together a three-year, medium-term reconstruction and development plan for Somalia.
United Nations development organizations, including UNDP and the World Bank, have been actively involved in this exercise, and arrangements have been made to integrate the efforts of Somalis into this plan.
I trust that those efforts will enable the Somalis to rebuild a civil society in their country.
4.
The former Yugoslavia
443.
The tragic situation in the former Yugoslavia continues to drain the attention, resources, and emotion of the international community.
The Security Council is in session almost daily on this subject and, by the end of July 1993, had adopted 44 resolutions and issued 33 statements by the President on the various conflicts there.
While the Council's wishes have been repeatedly flouted by the parties on the ground, I am encouraged by the fact that nations with vastly different interests have been able to respond collectively, again and again, with spontaneous and courageous initiatives, and that they have made valiant attempts to bring tranquillity to that troubled region.
444.
Since August 1993, the International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia has provided a permanent negotiating forum for seeking a political solution to all the problems of the former Yugoslavia.
The Conference has a Steering Committee, now chaired by Lord Owen, representing the European Community, and Thorvald Stoltenberg, who in May replaced my Personal Envoy, Cyrus Vance, and who also serves as my Special Representative for the former Yugoslavia.
I should like to place on record my gratitude for the tireless, selfless and dedicated efforts of Mr. Vance during the time that he served as my Personal Envoy.
The Vance-Owen Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Vance Plan for Croatia, still represent a basis for further political solutions to the conflicts in those Member States.
445.
Meanwhile the peace-keeping challenge both in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina has proved to be formidable.
The original mandate of the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) was extended three times at my suggestion, on 21 February, 31 March and 30 June 1993.
UNPROFOR now has almost 25,000 personnel - about 14,000 in Croatia, nearly 10,000 in Bosnia, and slightly under 1,000 in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The experience of UNPROFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, to a lesser extent, in Croatia has raised serious questions about the wisdom of deploying blue helmets in situations where the parties are unable or unwilling to honour commitments they enter into and where the peace-keepers themselves become targets of attack.
446.
In Croatia, the original United Nations peace plan remained unimplemented in crucial respects.
Demilitarization of the United Nations Protected Areas never took place because of the resistance of local Serbian authorities, a resistance which was at times hardened by the threat, or fear, of attack by the Croatian Army.
Consequently, the return of refugees and displaced persons, which can be effected only in secure circumstances, was repeatedly postponed, much to the dismay of all concerned.
The mounting frustration of the Croatian Government with the lack of progress in recovering its sovereign territory led to three incursions against Serbs in sectors adjoining the area of deployment of UNPROFOR, and set the peace process back even further.
At the time of writing the situation remains tense.
447.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the considerable peace-keeping and humanitarian effort of the international community has not brought an end to the brutal conflict, and the daily horrors inflicted on suffering civilians remain an affront to the world's conscience.
448.
The most visible and successful contribution of the international community in the former Yugoslavia is in the humanitarian sphere.
The United Nations relief effort, headed by UNHCR, includes valuable contributions by UNICEF, the World Health Organization, the World Food Programme, and other organizations including the International Committee of the Red Cross, the International Organization for Migration and numerous non-governmental organizations.
449.
In March, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported that 3.8 million people were receiving assistance in the whole of the former Yugoslavia.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina alone, some 2.28 million people, or half the original population, were benefiting from UNHCR assistance.
UNPROFOR was able to facilitate the delivery of some 40,000 tons of humanitarian aid to over 800,000 besieged civilians, and to provide help for a huge number of displaced people in the area.
Its presence was invaluable in helping to avert the mass starvation that many experts predicted would overtake Bosnia and Herzegovina during the past winter.
The provision of relief has involved negotiation of access routes, coordination of airlifting supplies into Sarajevo, delivery of relief by road convoys, and the organization of air drops of relief supplies to areas under siege not accessible by road convoys.
450.
The conditions for the international community's humanitarian efforts have steadily deteriorated, however.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina there is currently widespread fighting.
Relief operations are obstructed, sabotaged or diverted for military purposes, while the personnel of UNPROFOR, UNHCR and other organizations are increasingly targeted deliberately by members of the armed forces of all parties.
UNPROFOR has now incurred 548 casualties, including 51 fatalities, and the casualty rate has recently increased significantly.
Meanwhile, the support of the international community for humanitarian operations is dwindling and the sums actually received fall far short of requirements.
451.
The role of the United Nations and other organizations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the means at their disposal are therefore under serious challenge.
It is obviously of paramount importance to sustain the humanitarian effort for as long as necessary but there is a real risk that, if the present downward spiral continues, it will be impossible for the Security Council to achieve its political objectives in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The ultimate consequences would be further large population displacements, which could have serious destabilizing effects on neighbouring countries and the region as a whole, and a humanitarian catastrophe.
452.
One of the most heinous aspects of the war in the former Yugoslavia is the massive and systematic violation of human rights, and the grave violations of humanitarian law, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights has submitted several detailed reports on the situation, with recommendations.
In his report of March 1993, he paid special attention to mounting evidence of war crimes.
453.
In August 1992, the Security Council reaffirmed the individual responsibility of those who committed or ordered the commission of grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions and violations of international humanitarian law in the former Yugoslavia.
On 6 October 1992, the Council, in resolution 780 (1992), requested me to appoint a Commission of Experts to reach conclusions on the evidence of grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions and other violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia.
A five-member Commission was established, which has held seven sessions since November 1992, compiled a computerized database, provided two interim reports and conducted several field investigations.
The Office of Legal Affairs has provided legal and administrative support services to the Commission.
454.
The initial findings of the Commission led the Security Council to conclude that an international tribunal should be established for the prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991.
By its resolution 808 (1993), the Council requested me to prepare a report on all aspects of this matter, including specific proposals for the establishment of such a tribunal.
I submitted the report, including a draft Statute, on 3 May 1993, and it was approved in its entirety by the Security Council in resolution 827 (1993) of 25 May 1993.
455.
The report and the Statute dealt with the constitutionally controversial question of the legal basis for the establishment of the Tribunal, the highly complex substantive legal issues regarding its competence, and the detailed procedural and organizational aspects of its work.
The Statute is widely regarded as breaking new ground in the area of international criminal law.
F.
Post-conflict peace-building
456.
In "An Agenda for Peace", I stressed that a process of post-conflict peace-building was essential for preventing the recurrence of armed conflict between States.
Despite the voluminous and very useful analysis and commentary which has emerged in the months since that report appeared, however, little attention has been given to this concept.
Peace-building encompasses more than the reconstruction of the peace after the cessation of hostilities.
Peace-building must be linked to the comprehensive development efforts of the United Nations, political, economic, social and cultural.
457.
The objective of peace-building is to involve hostile parties in mutually beneficial undertakings which not only contribute to economic and social development but also reinforce the confidence necessary for the creation of lasting peace.
The reduction of hostile perceptions through educational exchanges and curriculum reform may also be essential to forestall the re-emergence of cultural and national tensions which could spark renewed hostilities.
Such an approach can also play a vital role in building the peace in situations characterized by civil conflict.
458.
Peace-building begins with practical measures to restore the civil society, reinvigorate its economy, repair the land and restore its productivity, repatriate and resettle displaced people and refugees; it also entails reducing the levels of arms in society, as a component of the volatility that induces violence.
These steps, taken in the context of comprehensive humanitarian efforts, are all essential to set the stage for sustainable social, political and economic development.
1.
Mine clearance
459.
Of all the tasks involved in setting a nation on a new road to peace and prosperity, perhaps none has the immediate urgency of mine clearance.
Tens of millions of mines have been left in areas of conflict around the world.
Although mine-clearance efforts may last for decades, the restoration of transport infrastructures, resettlement areas and agricultural land are often early priorities, and no attempt to restore a sense of community and security can succeed without effective land-mine removal.
460.
I have therefore launched a coordinated programme of action for mine clearance, involving the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, the Department of Peace-keeping Operations and other competent bodies.
In Angola, Somalia and the former Yugoslavia, mine clearing is at present undertaken as part of peace-keeping and humanitarian efforts; a concerted drive to rid those countries of mine pollution must wait until the cessation of hostilities.
In countries where major conflict has ceased or abated, mine clearance is under way and fighters are being disarmed, demobilized and aided in making the transition to productive peacetime work.
461.
In Afghanistan, at least 10 million mines were left behind after the recent war, and are now seriously hindering the restoration of normal life in many parts of the country.
The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan is managing a mine-clearance programme involving the training and supervision of some 2,000 mine clearers fielded under the auspices of Afghan non-governmental organizations.
If sufficient funding is made available by donors in a timely manner, it seems likely that the majority of the high priority cultivable land will be cleared by the end of 1997.
462.
Mine clearance progresses well in Cambodia, where some 1,400 mine clearers are now working.
There are perhaps 5 million mines spread all over the eastern districts, and clearance is slow, especially in the flood plains and paddy-fields.
Following the successful use of mine detecting dogs in Afghanistan, a similar effort is under way in Cambodia, but it will be many years before this problem is finally resolved.
It is therefore imperative that mine clearing should continue in Cambodia after the termination of UNTAC.
463.
A plan has been prepared for the clearance of an estimated 2 million mines in Mozambique.
Funds have been raised, partly from the ONUMOZ budget and partly through a trust fund administered by UNDP.
A mine-clearance training facility is to be a major part of the programme, since there too mine clearance will be a long-term operation.
2.
Electoral assistance
464.
During the year, I established an Electoral Assistance Unit in the Department of Political Affairs.
Since the Unit became operational, it has provided electoral assistance to 36 Member States, including four cases where the requests were received before 1992 (Angola, Cambodia, Mali and Western Sahara).
Of those 36 cases, 2 relate to organization and conduct, 4 to verification, 26 to technical assistance, 9 to coordination and support and 7 to follow-up and report.
Twelve of those cases were a combination of technical assistance and one of the other categories.
Of the Member States requesting assistance, 26 were from Africa, 4 from Eastern Europe, 4 from Latin America and 1 from Asia.
465.
Member States seek electoral assistance from the United Nations essentially in four circumstances:
when a country is undergoing a transition to democracy; when it is seeking to build a peaceful alternative to conflict; following decolonization; and in self-determination elections.
In Eritrea and Western Sahara for example, the United Nations has a long-term commitment to assisting in the design of the electoral and referendal systems.
The case of Eritrea is an important illustration of this aspect of the Organization's activity.
466.
Eritrea suffered more than 25 years of civil war, which ended in May 1991, and now benefits from overall political and security stability.
In December 1991, the President of the Transitional Government of Ethiopia made the necessary arrangements with the Provisional Government of Eritrea to facilitate United Nations supervision of a referendum by which the people of Eritrea could determine their political future.
On 19 May 1992, the Referendum Commission of Eritrea requested the United Nations to undertake the verification of the referendum.
A technical team from the Electoral Assistance Unit visited Eritrea between 30 July and 8 August 1992 to gather information and submitted a report, on the basis of which I reported to the General Assembly, seeking a mandate to undertake a verification mission as requested.
On 16 December 1992, the General Assembly, in its resolution 47/114, authorized the establishment of the United Nations Observer Mission to Verify the Referendum in Eritrea (UNOVER).
467.
On 6 January 1993, I visited Eritrea to make a first-hand appraisal of the referendum process.
UNOVER was inaugurated on 7 January 1993 and consisted of 21 international staff members supported by local personnel, headed by my Personal Representative, Samir Sanbar.
They were joined by 85 observers during the referendum, which took place from 23 to 25 April 1993.
The total budget of UNOVER was in the order of $2 million.
468.
According to the Eritrean Referendum Commission, more than 98.5 per cent of the nearly 1.2 million registered voters voted in the referendum.
Voting was overwhelmingly in favour of independence, which was declared on 27 April 1993.
Soon after, Eritrea was admitted to membership in the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity.
469.
In 1992, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs launched consolidated appeals for the region of the Horn of Africa.
For Eritrea, the amount sought to meet emergency needs was $191 million, towards which the international community contributed resources in cash and in kind equivalent to $136 million.
The results of any democratic electoral process must be supported by a fundamentally healthy society, economy and State if they are to be durable.
The decades of warfare damaged or destroyed much of the physical infrastructure in Eritrea and, together with the drought in recent years, produced major relief needs;
but the need is no longer for massive emergency relief but chiefly for major post-disaster rehabilitation and development.
In July 1992, the United Nations and the Provisional Government of Eritrea launched a three-year programme for refugee reintegration and rehabilitation of resettlement areas, which requires $262 million and seeks to repatriate 500,000 Eritrean refugees from the Sudan.
So far only $32.4 million has been pledged.
470.
Not all the interventions of the United Nations in electoral observation have been large-scale missions such as UNAVEM II, UNTAC or UNOVER.
Other approaches, involving the coordination and provision of logistic support to groups of international observers, have been effective.
Malawi is a particularly interesting case.
Coordination efforts began three months before the referendum date and included the deployment of observers during voter registration and the referendum campaign.
The involvement of the United Nations was not limited to mere observation, however;
on two occasions, I intervened to help secure the agreement of the parties to a change in the date of the elections and on the question of ballot boxes.
The referendum confirmed the will of the Malawian people to move to a multi-party system, and the Government is now proceeding with the arrangements for parliamentary elections that will be fully supported by the United Nations.
G.
Disarmament
471.
Since my report on new dimensions of arms regulation and disarmament in the post-cold-war era, significant events have taken place in the international security environment, requiring new responses and renewed efforts by the international community to deal with them.
The momentum created by the many positive breakthroughs of the past year must now be maintained.
472.
Most notable among such achievements is the recent decision of the Conference on Disarmament to give its Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test Ban a mandate to negotiate a treaty on a comprehensive nuclear test ban.
That decision was made possible by the crucial commitment of nuclear-weapons States to a continuing moratorium on nuclear testing, and represents a culmination of the efforts of the international community to bring about progress in one of the most vital areas of international security.
The year 1993 is the first in which no nuclear tests have been carried out since the moratoria of the 1960s.
473.
To be viable, a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty should be universal, verifiable and of indefinite duration.
Coupled with a renewed interest in the cessation of the production of fissionable material, a comprehensive nuclear test ban could help to halt the qualitative arms race and to prevent other countries from acquiring nuclear weapons.
That would strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime, which has gained in significance as the number of nuclear weapons is being drastically reduced.
Together, all these developments offer an incentive to the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to extend that Treaty in 1995 unconditionally and indefinitely.
474.
I am gratified by the fact that Belarus has recently ratified the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and I very much hope that Kazakhstan and Ukraine will follow that example.
I have expressed my deep concern about the intention of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to withdraw from the Treaty, and I am therefore encouraged by the fact that its Government has postponed a final decision on the matter and is engaged in negotiations with other interested parties, in particular the International Atomic Energy Agency.
475.
Global non-proliferation efforts can also be facilitated by the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones.
The progress made towards the full entry into force of the Treaty of Tlatelolco is most welcome;
in this context, regional initiatives such as those taken by Argentina and Brazil are commendable.
I am also gratified by the advances made in the implementation of the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa.
I extend my strongest support to the ongoing efforts to finalize the text of the treaty to establish formally a nuclear-weapon-free zone in that region.
476.
Another significant landmark in the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is the signature of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction by some 148 States.
The smooth establishment of the Preparatory Commission for the Organization on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons augurs well for the effective and successful implementation of the Convention.
Every effort must now be made to achieve universality at the earliest date.
477.
The establishment of the Register of Conventional Arms is another event of historic significance.
In the current situation, where emphasis is placed on building confidence through increased openness and transparency in military matters, the Register has a unique potential.
I am pleased that all major arms suppliers and recipient States have provided information to the Register in its first year of operation.
The Register has proved to be a success.
478.
The importance of the Register becomes even clearer as we relate it to the question of excessive and destabilizing capabilities in conventional weapons.
Although no substitute for actual arms reductions, the Register could help to make military behaviour more predictable and to reassure neighbouring States of each other's non-belligerent intentions.
It could be particularly helpful in regions and subregions where there are potential hostilities, as it could lead to gradual reductions in armaments, while allowing the legitimate defence concerns of the parties involved to be considered.
I would therefore strongly urge Member States to make use of the Register, together with other measures of confidence-building, particularly within regional and subregional frameworks.
This is one way in which disarmament and arms control can contribute to the Organization's efforts in the fields of preventive diplomacy and peacemaking, and I have decided that this should become a priority task for the Office of Disarmament Affairs in the Department of Political Affairs.
479.
An issue closely related to non-proliferation efforts, and to which I attach great importance, is that of the transfer of dual-purpose technology.
While it is essential for the international community to prevent the misuse of technology for military purposes, it would be unfair to obstruct legitimate development opportunities.
To ensure that all countries, particularly developing countries, will enjoy the peaceful uses of science and technology, I call on the international community to seek agreement on control arrangements that will be universal and non-discriminatory.
H.
The humanitarian imperative
1.
Towards a coordinated United Nations response
480.
The international community has asked that more be done to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations to provide humanitarian assistance, through coordinated planning and implementation involving the Departments of Political Affairs, Peace-keeping Operations and Humanitarian Affairs, and that humanitarian concerns should be reflected in fact-finding missions and in peace-keeping operations.
I have therefore taken steps to ensure that essential collaboration takes place among those Departments and between them and all other United Nations organizations and bodies.
481.
Humanitarian emergencies, by causing the mass exodus of people, may constitute threats to international peace and security, or aggravate existing threats;
conversely, disturbances of the peace may give rise to humanitarian crises.
I stress again that it is essential that the United Nations should develop the ability to link humanitarian action and protection of human rights with peacemaking, peace-keeping and peace-building.
In formulating the response to humanitarian emergencies, we cannot ignore the infrastructural requirements of the societies in need.
Rehabilitation and reconstruction must accompany emergency relief.
482.
Because relief personnel frequently operate in areas of conflict or danger even prior to the deployment of United Nations forces, their security is of particular concern.
The murder of United Nations staff members working in humanitarian programmes in Afghanistan and the Sudan this past year is a tragic reminder of the fragile status of the United Nations humanitarian presence in turbulent areas (see figure 12).
Every effort is being made to ensure the safety of United Nations personnel, and I am also concerned about the security of the personnel of humanitarian non-governmental organizations who are assisting in the implementation of United Nations relief programmes.
It is imperative that Governments and other parties to conflict respect their obligations under international law to ensure the secure access of relief personnel and supplies to the victims of humanitarian emergencies.
483.
The United Nations system has continued to adapt, refine and strengthen its mechanisms to address new challenges.
United Nations and other organizations, including non-governmental organizations, have had to increase their emergency humanitarian relief substantially, straining resources available for reconstruction and development efforts.
The three principal United Nations organizations engaged in humanitarian assistance, UNICEF, WFP and UNHCR, increased their relief outlays from $278 million in 1989 to $1,287 million during 1992.
484.
At the last meeting of the Administrative Committee on Coordination, I discussed extensively with the heads of organizations, funds and programmes the issues of coordination and effectiveness of United Nations humanitarian action.
While many issues remain to be resolved, I believe that the organizations of the United Nations system are moving in the right direction to establish mechanisms for greater coherence and increased rapidity in their response.
One idea which I have encouraged relates to the immediate deployment, at the start of a crisis, of United Nations humanitarian emergency teams, which would draw on the capacities and expertise of the organizations of the system.
485.
There is an Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC), composed of executive heads of organizations and chaired by the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, which sets the direction on policy and coordination questions that shape the humanitarian response of the system.
Arrangements have had to be made, however, to deal with issues that do not fall within the existing mandates of IASC member organizations, for example the issue of internally displaced persons, whose numbers are growing at an alarming rate.
Operational responsibility for programmes benefiting the internally displaced have been determined on the basis of the capacities of the organizations in the field.
UNHCR, UNDP, UNICEF and WFP have all been addressing the various aspects of this problem.
486.
As an integral part of the new arrangements for the prompt coordination of the international humanitarian response, the $50 million Central Emergency Revolving Fund has proved to be a useful instrument.
Since its inception, $54 million have been advanced from the Fund to finance urgent humanitarian action in Afghanistan, Georgia, Iraq, Kenya, Lebanon, Mozambique, Somalia, Tajikistan and the former Yugoslavia;
$20 million of the advances have been reimbursed, confirming the Fund's viability.
I am at present considering how the scope and operations of the Fund could be broadened.
Given the magnitude and range of emergency humanitarian crises, it may also be useful to consider expanding its resources.
487.
Thus far in 1993, the new coordination arrangements under the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, have helped launch 17 inter-agency consolidated appeals for over $4 billion for relief and rehabilitation programmes in some 20 countries, involving assistance to more than 20 million affected people.
Only a quarter of the resources appealed for were forthcoming, however, which has considerably hampered the effective implementation of humanitarian programmes.
I have asked the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs to suggest ways in which international community support for those programmes could be further strengthened.
488.
In northern Iraq, United Nations humanitarian efforts prevented another serious refugee crisis.
For the Somalis, the spectre of starvation and disease has receded, and in Mozambique, too, the humanitarian situation seems hopeful.
But in many other situations - in Afghanistan, Angola, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Liberia and southern Sudan - human suffering continues to increase, and for many millions of refugees and displaced persons the situation remains desperate.
2.
Disaster relief and mitigation
489.
Apart from tragedies and crises caused by man's inhumanity to man, natural calamities, such as cyclones, drought, floods, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, continue to take a heavy toll of human life and property.
Indeed, the rapidly increasing rate of urbanization, and the steady increase in world population, mean that natural disasters are both more destructive and more costly than ever before.
In 1991, natural disasters took more than 162,000 lives and caused damage to property estimated at $44 billion.
Disaster mitigation, which should involve both preventive and preparedness measures, can effectively reduce the human toll and economic losses.
Ensuring a more effective disaster management response system is yet one more challenge for the United Nations system and the international community.
490.
From January 1992 to June 1993, the Department of Humanitarian Affairs coordinated the international response to more than 90 natural disasters, including earthquakes or floods in Egypt, Turkey, Indonesia, Kazakhstan and Pakistan.
Coordination mechanisms such as search and rescue teams and on-site coordination of relief activities have been strengthened.
The ultimate objective is to increase national and local capacities to deal with disasters.
Efforts to prevent and mitigate disasters must begin at the grass-roots level if they are to be effective in minimizing the harm caused by natural disasters.
491.
I am convinced that improved disaster management, especially through enhanced preventive action, benefiting from scientific and technological advances, can help to reduce substantially the impact of natural disasters and alleviate the sufferings of the victims.
Indeed, the Scientific and Technical Committee on the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction, consisting of scientists and specialists from related disciplines, recommended holding a conference where their expertise could be transferred to policy makers in disaster-prone countries.
The General Assembly endorsed that recommendation at its forty-sixth session, and I am confident that the World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction will mobilize the more active involvement of international and national organizations in prevention, preparedness and mitigation activities.
I look forward to the participation of all Member States in that Conference.
3.
Relief operations
(a)     The Sudan
492.
The humanitarian situation caused by continuing conflict in southern Sudan is a matter of considerable concern.
While much was done to ameliorate human suffering, the underlying problems remain, and require greater humanitarian efforts.
493.
A series of high-level initiatives have been taken to broaden and accelerate the delivery of relief assistance to conflict-affected areas.
During a visit to the Sudan in September 1992 by the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, agreement was reached with the Government on the principle of access to all people in need of assistance, and on specific air and river corridors for relief deliveries.
Following "proximity talks" between the Government and three factions of the Sudanese People's Liberation Movement, conducted by the United Nations at Nairobi in December 1992, further agreements were reached on road, river and rail corridors, and on updated assessments of the location and condition of displaced populations.
In January 1993, the United Nations sponsored talks between the Government and international non-governmental organizations which resulted in wide-ranging agreements designed to enhance the effectiveness of relief operations conducted by those organizations.
494.
Despite various efforts, including those of Operation Lifeline Sudan, the humanitarian situation of the affected population remains precarious.
I consequently appointed Vieri Traxler as Special Envoy for Humanitarian Affairs for the Sudan, to travel to the region to develop practical and verifiable measures to mitigate the human suffering in several parts of the country.
The Government of the Sudan at first denied Mr. Traxler's mission access to the country but, after further contact, it has been accepted.
(b)     Kenya
495.
Early in 1993, Kenya faced major humanitarian challenges.
They included requirements for drought relief and drought recovery, such as seeds, tools and veterinary aid, and assistance for refugees in Kenya, primarily from Somalia.
It was also necessary to promote stability on both sides of the borders with Ethiopia and Somalia, and to help create the conditions for the return of refugees from Kenya to those countries.
The Department of Humanitarian Affairs took the lead in coordinating the preparation of a consolidated inter-agency appeal for Kenya for a total of $192 million.
As at 31 July, the nine United Nations organizations requesting funds had received $74.5 million, or 39 per cent of the amount requested.
496.
It is clear that Kenya will continue to require substantial humanitarian assistance throughout the remainder of 1993 and in 1994, and that a consolidated inter-agency appeal will be necessary for 1994.
Current crop assessments indicate the likelihood of a third consecutive year of lower than normal harvests, primarily because of drought.
UNHCR is preparing an appeal for the repatriation of refugees to Somalia from Kenya, a process which will extend well into 1994, as will the need for continued cross-border operations.
Finally, special assistance efforts are now being considered to help Kenyans who have been internally displaced by violence in parts of the Rift Valley, Nyanza and Western provinces.
(c)     Ethiopia
497.
There continue to be significant relief needs in Ethiopia, but the overall emphasis has moved to rehabilitation efforts.
In the course of 1993, the United Nations concentrated largely on providing humanitarian assistance to about 5 million people, mainly victims of drought, former soldiers and their families, several hundred thousand refugees from Somalia, returnees, and persons internally displaced.
These numbers include an unabated influx of Sudanese refugees, as well as Kenyan and Djiboutian refugees and 400,000 to 500,000 Ethiopians who have returned over the past three years but who still have complex relief needs.
498.
An especially noteworthy feature of the case of Ethiopia is the cross-mandate approach, under which those in need are assisted by competent United Nations organizations, the Government and others in a unified programme, regardless of their status (for example, returning refugees or internally displaced persons);
the Emergency Preparation and Planning Group plays an important coordination role.
499.
The consolidated inter-agency appeal for Ethiopia, launched in January 1993, sought $299.9 million to support such efforts.
As at 31 July, $109.7 million had been received in donor contributions, or 36.6 per cent of the funds requested.
(d)     Drought emergency in southern Africa
500.
The drought emergency in southern Africa programme provides an example of the way in which the United Nations, in cooperation with Governments, regional organizations, international financial institutions and non-governmental organizations can meet the challenges of the humanitarian tasks that lie ahead.
When 18 million lives were placed at risk by the worst drought to affect southern Africa in this century, that programme, a coordinated approach between the United Nations and a regional institution, the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC), was established as the cornerstone of a complex relief strategy involving assistance channelled through multilateral, bilateral and non-governmental organizations.
Funding requirements amount to $858 million.
501.
Tragedy was averted because the international community responded positively to the plight of southern Africa, and the Governments of the region made extraordinary efforts to mobilize large amounts of their own resources for food imports and the distribution of emergency aid.
Although the unprecedented quantities of food aid they received placed a severe strain on the logistics capacity of individual countries, six of which are land-locked, the region demonstrated its capacity to deliver relief assistance to affected populations in a timely fashion.
502.
The World Food Programme/SADC Logistics Advisory Centre was one of the collaborative mechanisms critical to the programme's success;
it ensured well-coordinated utilization of ports and land and rail corridors.
The Department of Humanitarian Affairs continues its collaboration with SADC to ensure that the emergency management capacity established under the programme is sustained.
Of all the natural disasters affecting Africa, drought imposes the greatest toll in human suffering and economic costs.
(e)     Chernobyl
503.
Seven years have passed since the accident occurred at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
I visited Ukraine recently and was greatly moved to see the continuing consequences of that disaster in the daily life of the population.
Some sections of the populations of Belarus and the Russian Federation have also been affected.
504.
My Coordinator of International Cooperation for Chernobyl has also visited the three affected States, including the exclusion zone around the encased reactor.
After extensive consultations, a new approach has been formulated for the activities of the United Nations system in response to the Chernobyl accident, involving mitigation of its consequences through the implementation of specific projects to address priority needs in the affected areas.
To be effective and credible, however, such activities require adequate funding, and thus depend on an appropriate response from the international donor community.
4.
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
505.
The world's refugee population now stands at a staggering 19 million, and the number of internally displaced persons is 25 million. Such is the magnitude of the problem the world faces in 1993.
This is a particularly difficult challenge, and the human and material resources of the United Nations system have been stretched to the limit.
506.
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is carrying out a three-track strategy of prevention, preparedness and solutions.
While responding to refugee situations in countries of asylum, the Office also turned its attention to countries of origin, seeking to prevent and contain refugee movements.
UNHCR provided assistance not only to refugees, returnees and displaced persons but also, in the case of the former Yugoslavia, to people affected by conflict or under a direct threat of expulsion, or subjected to the form of persecution now known as "ethnic cleansing".
Invoking the human right to remain in one's country of origin, the Office of the High Commissioner sought to ensure that people were not forced to flee from their homes in the first place.
507.
One of the highest priorities of UNHCR is to secure the protection of vulnerable groups in areas where peace-keeping operations have brought about a halt in military hostilities.
UNHCR has given special attention to sexual violence against refugee women.
Among the most odious practices to re-emerge on a large scale in recent conflicts is the use of rape and other forms of sexual violence as an instrument of systematic persecution and intimidation.
UNHCR is attempting to achieve international consensus on concrete measures to prevent such practices.
508.
UNHCR has also focused on refugee children. Persistent protection problems include military recruitment, detention, irregular adoption, denial of the right to education, and the situation of unaccompanied minors in the care of families not their own.
The guidelines and considerations contained in the pamphlet entitled Evacuation of Children from Conflict Areas, published jointly by UNHCR and UNICEF in December 1992, illustrate the great potential for inter-agency cooperation in securing the protection of children's rights in the most difficult situations.
509.
Among the most notable refugee problems of the past year, the situation in Afghanistan stands out.
The end of the occupation by forces of the former Soviet Union, and the return of large parts of the country to relative stability, have made possible the return of large numbers of refugees from safe havens in Pakistan and elsewhere.
Although continuing hostilities in parts of the country have deterred some refugees from returning, it is estimated that some 1.7 million Afghans have re-entered Afghanistan in the course of the past 18 months.
The provision of assistance to those returnees is an important element in the emergency programmes being coordinated by the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan.
FIGURE 8         Peace-keeping operations as at 31 July 1993 FIGURE 9         Civilian and military personnel in peace-keeping operations         as at 30 June 1993 FIGURE 10         Internationally and locally recruited staff in         peace-keeping missions FIGURE 11         Total fatalities in peace-keeping operations since 1987 FIGURE 12         Civilian fatalities in peace-keeping missions since 1989
"... promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion ..."
Charter of the United Nations, Article 1, paragraph 3
V.
CONCLUSION:
STRENGTHENING THE HUMAN FOUNDATION
510.
This report has addressed an immense array of practical and urgent programmes and measures designed to carry forward the purposes and principles of the Charter.
Underlying these practical efforts are broader endeavours which warrant our commitment over the long term so that we may construct a more enduringly just and advancing global society.
511.
A year ago, I stated that a new opportunity had presented itself, that fulfilment of the Charter's original promise was once again achievable.
That opportunity has been grasped.
Responsibilities have been heaped upon the United Nations.
The new activism has made it clear, however, that new levels of political will and intellectual creativity must be attained if wider engagement is to produce enduring achievement.
512.
The events of the past 12 months should impress upon us the need for a new realism.
The United Nations, by undertaking a range of problems as wide as the globe itself, must be expected to achieve successes but also to experience failure.
The failures cannot be put to one side; they require continuing commitment.
And successes cannot be regarded as permanent;
every positive outcome is likely to be a starting-point for further effort.
In a spirit of realism and new possibility, a synthesis of heretofore opposing concepts is conceivable: the United Nations as the instrument of the body of Member States, and the United Nations as more than the sum of its parts.
513.
Only international action that emerges from the crucible of debate and decision in the General Assembly, the Security Council and the other organs of the United Nations carries with it the full authority of the world community.
The United Nations is now understood to be humanity's best hope in the pursuit of peace, development and human rights.
514.
Dedicated to the integrity and development of each individual, drawing legitimacy from all peoples, expressing the consensus of States, the United Nations Organization calls forth, through its universality and dedication to life's basic tasks, a greater potential than humanity has ever before conceived possible.
-----
Figure 3: A tripartite model for translation analysis Figure 1: A translation analysis tree (TAT) Figure 2: Sentence alignment as a simple case of TAT
Translation Analysis  and Translation Automation
ABSTRACT
We argue that the concept of translation analysis provides a suitable foundation  for a new generation of translation support tools.
We show that pre-existing  translations can be analyzed into a structured translation memory and describe our TransSearch bilingual concordancing system, which allows translators to harness such a memory.
We claim that translation analyzers can help detect  translation errors in draft translations and we present the results of an experiment on the detection of deceptive cognates conducted as part of our TransCheck project.
Finally, we claim that translation analysis can facilitate the speech-to-text  transcription of dictated translations and introduce our new TransTalk project.
1.
Introduction
In 1951, Y. Bar-Hillel, the first full-time researcher in MT, wrote the following:
"For those targets in which high accuracy is a conditio sine qua non, pure MT has to be given up  in favor of mixed MT, i.e., a translation process in which a human brain intervenes.
There the  question arises:
Which parts of the process should be given to a human partner?"
(Bar-Hillel [1],  p. 230)
Forty-two years and three `generations' of systems later, pure MT is not more widely applicable  than it was then.
More discouraging still, neither is mixed MT.
While precise figures are not  readily available, it appears safe to assume that the current share of anything that could be called MT, pure or mixed, is well below 1% of the total translation market.
One is forced to conclude that  the MT community has so far failed to come up with realistic and practical answers to Bar-Hillel's question about the optimal division of labor between man and machine.
Bar-Hillel himself ventured to suggest a man-machine tandem in which the human partner would  intervene either before or after the mechanical process, "but preferably not somewhere in the midst of it."
That is, the machine would take care of the core part of the translation process.
Ever  since, `human-aided MT' has remained the predominant paradigm within the MT community. Machines have persistently been asked to do something they fail to do well: namely, translate.
And  humans have persistently been asked to do things they would rather not do, like inserting strange codes into source texts, answering odd questions about phrase bracketings or rearranging bizarre jumbles of target language words.
In any case, the market response to this kind of man/machine  modus vivendi has consistently been less than enthusiastic.
It has become obvious that, generally speaking, machines still cannot successfully assume  control over the core part of the translation process.
As far back as 1980, Martin Kay [18]  forcefully argued for a reversal of roles in which the machine is sent back to its `proper place', that of an assistant to the human translator:
"I want to advocate a view of the problem in which machines are gradually, almost  imperceptibly, allowed to take over certain functions in the overall translation process.
First they  will take over functions not essentially related to translation.
Then, little by little, they will  approach translation itself.
The keynote will be modesty.
At each stage, we will do only what we  know we can do reliably.
Little steps for little feet!"
(p. 11)
It is precisely this kind of down-to-earth approach that the Center for Information Technology  Innovation (CITI chose to pursue when it launched its translator's workstation project back in 1987.
In its current incarnation, the CITI's workstation provides the translator with a windowing  environment where he/she has simultaneous access to a number of tools such as split screen word processing, spelling correction, terminology and dictionary lookup, file comparison, word counting, full-text retrieval, etc.
(Macklovitch [17]).
Admittedly, this has more to do with office  automation for translators than with translation automation per se.
But following Kay's proposed  scenario, we can now take advantage of this computer base and progressively enrich it with translation-oriented tools.
From this perspective, the central issue can be formulated as follows:
beyond office automation, but short of machine translation, what else can be done to  support translators?
In the remainder of this paper, we argue that the concept of translation analysis constitutes a  suitable foundation for the development of a new generation of translation support tools.
Section 2  is a general discussion of the notion of translation analysis.
Sections 3, 4 and 5 describe our work  on three applications: the translation memory, the translation checker and the translator's dictation machine.
2.
Translation Analysis
In recent literature (e.g. Isabelle, Dymetman & Macklovitch [14]), translation is often  conceptualized as a relation trL1,L2(S, T) whose extension is a set of pairs <S,T> such that S is a text of language L1 and T is a text of language L2.
Since the number of texts in each language is  infinite, trL1,L2 has to be be defined recursively, with the consequence that the relation will have a compositional character:
down to the level of some finite set of primitive elements, S and T will be  decomposed respectively into sets of elements {s1, s2, ... , sn} and {t1, t2, ... , tn}, in such a way that  for any i, trL1,L2(si, ti) is also satisfied.
An ordinary MT system embodies some (possibly partial) specification of a translation relation  trL1,L2, together with a procedure which, given any value of S, will return one or several values T such that <S,T> belongs to trL1,L2.
A reversible MT system (see for example Dymetman [8], Van  Noord [21]) can in addition compute, for any value of T, the values S for which <S,T> belongs to trL1,L2.
While MT systems deal with the problem of producing translations, we can also, as noted by Debili  [7], view translations from a recognition perspective.
We will call a translation acceptor any  procedure which, given some particular pair <S,T>, can decide whether or not trL1,L2(S,T) holds.
Furthermore, we will call a translation analyzer any recursive procedure ta(<S,T>, TAT) that  assigns to those pairs <S,T> that satisfy trL1,L2(S,T) a translation analysis tree TAT.
A TAT makes  explicit the compositional makeup of the translation relation.
For example, given some suitable  definition of the English-French translation relation, a translation analyzer could produce a TAT such as the one shown in Figure 1.

Isabelle [13] uses the term bi-text to designate structures which, like TAT's, are meant to  decompose translations into their constituent correspondences.
TAT's are structural descriptors for  translation analyses in the same way that parse trees are structural descriptors for grammatical analyses.
In principle, translation analysis and MT are very similar problems:
the computation is based on  the same abstract relation trL1,L2.
The difference is only in the computing modes.
Does this mean  that in practice translation analyzers and MT systems are subject to exactly the same limitations?
In particular, does this mean that useful translation analyzers are feasible if and only if useful MT  systems are feasible?
Clearly not.
Of course, in those rare cases where high-quality MT is feasible, it should be possible  to build a translation analyzer for the output of the MT system.
But more importantly, in cases  where MT is not possible, we claim that it is still possible to develop analyzers for the translations produced by human translators, and that there will be many uses for these devices.
This difference  stems from the practical requirements that different tasks (MT versus translation analysis) impose on the level of precision in the formal characterization of trL1,L2(S,T).
Consider for example the model that underlies the sentence alignment method proposed by  Brown & al. [3].
Conceptually, this model generates sequences of pairs of <S,T> in such a way that
a)
S is a sequence <s1, s2, ... sn> in which each si is itself a sequence of 0, 1 or 2 `sentences' and  T is a similar sequence <t1, t2, ... tn>;
b)
a `sentence' is any string of tokens terminated by a  punctuation token;
c)
a token is any string of characters appearing between delimiter characters;
d)
the length l(si) of each si (in terms of the number of tokens it contains) is correlated with the  length l(ti) of the corresponding ti according to a probability distribution Pr(l(s)|l(t)); and e) this probability distribution can be estimated from frequencies observed in corpora of translations, like the Hansard corpus of English/French texts.
This model does capture one specific aspect of the translation relation between two languages,  namely length correlations between sentences that are mutual translations.
In this sense it  constitutes a translation model, albeit an extremely weak one.
If we were to apply a model of this kind to the task of translating English texts into French, an  English sentence e would be translated more or less as random sequence of characters f, whose only notable property is to have a length l(f) that is typical for a translation of an English sentence of length l(e).
Such an `MT system' would appear perfectly useless in practice.
On the other hand, if like Brown & al. we apply their model to the task of translation analysis, we  get a system capable of analyzing pre-existing translations into representations in which their compositional makeup is made explicit down to the level of sentences.
The result is a TAT of the  form shown in Figure 2, in which texts S and T are decomposed into n successive pairs of blocks si and ti of sentences.

Admittedly, the analysis is very crude:
no correspondences are established below the sentence  level.
Still, as we will see shortly, these `low-resolution' bi-texts provide an adequate basis for  some very useful translation support tools.
Of course, richer analyses would open up even more possibilities in this respect.
And in fact, is not  too hard to imagine families of somewhat stronger translation models which, while still insufficient for successful MT, could be used to successfully uncover more structure in pre-existing translations (e.g. phrase or word correspondences).
With respect to their general architecture, models used for translation analysis can be very close  to those used for MT.
The most obvious possibility is perhaps the tripartite model illustrated in  Figure 3.

Just as in the well-known transfer model of MT, there are two language-specific  components (the language models), and one pair-specific, `contrastive' component (the correspondence model).
Both monolingual components operate in the analysis mode and the  language-specific representations that they produce are fed into the correspondence model, which connects them into a single bi-textual representation in which translation correspondences are made explicit.
This model remains a natural one regardless of whether its components are  implemented by means of rule-based or corpus-based techniques.
In fact, even the simple length- based alignment method mentioned above is best conceptualized as an instance of it.
In the development of general-purpose translation analyzers, there is some evidence to suggest  that probabilistic models will turn out to be extremely useful.
While rule-based methods work well  for the development of `deep' models in narrow domains, probabilistic methods appear especially well-suited to the development of shallow models potentially capable of providing reasonably good partial analyses of non-restricted translations.
In any case, our basic claim here is only that translation analysis, even based on weak translation  models, provides the right foundation for a new generation of translation support tools.
We now  turn to an examination of some of these tools.
3.
Translation Memory
3.1
Existing Translations as a Resource
The trend towards corpus-based approaches in MT stems in part from a realization that the  existing body of translations is an immensely rich resource whose potential has so far been neglected.
In fact, it is clear that existing translations contain more solutions to more  translation problems than any other available resource.
But translators will only be able to tap the riches buried in their past production once they are  provided with tools capable of managing it as translation data rather than as word-processing data.
This is precisely what a translation analyzer sets out to do: upgrade word-processing data  into bi-textual structures that make translation correspondences explicit.
Once pre-existing translations are organized in that way, corresponding source and target  language segment are systematically linked together.
In particular, any segment containing an  instance of some translation problem is linked with a segment containing a ready-made solution for that problem.
If we provide translators with the means to create, store and search such bi- textual structures, their past production becomes a highly effective translation memory.
3.2
TransBase
In order to render accessible the results of translation analyses of large quantities of text, we have  devised a simple model for a structured translation memory, which we call TransBase.
It shares  the basic characteristics of full-text retrieval systems:
it can manage arbitrary amounts of text, it  can be enlarged incrementally and it allows rapid access to the textual contents of the database.
Its essential difference with these systems is its ability to also store bi-textual representations.
A TransBase database is constructed using a translation analyzer similar to the one depicted in  Figure 2.
Each document in a pair of mutual translations is submitted to a language-specific  analysis which breaks it down into its structural elements (paragraphs, sentences, etc.) and determines its lexical content.
This information is stored in two distinct language-specific  components of the database, and indexed so as to allow rapid access to any part of the text.
A  "correspondence analyzer" based on the techniques described in Simard, Foster & Isabelle [20] then uses these language-specific analyses to construct a sentence-level "translation map", which is also stored into the database.
The structure and construction scheme of the database are  illustrated in Figure 4.
Figure 4:
General organization of a TransBase database
The texts of the source and target languages are handled symmetrically in the database.
However,  since the directionality of the translation may be important to the user, TransBase can record which language is the source.
3.3
TransSearch
There are many possible ways to exploit such a translation memory.
The first one that comes to  mind, and probably the most universally useful, is to provide translators with tools to search a TransBase database on the basis of its textual content.
It has already been suggested that a tool  capable of producing bilingual concordances would be useful to bilingual lexicographers (see for example Church & Gale [6]).
It is rather obvious that bilingual concordancing would also be useful  to translators.
For example, upon encountering some occurrence of an expression like to be out to  lunch or to add insult to injury in his English source\x11text, a translator might be hesitant as to an appropriate French equivalent.
He/she might also find that conventional bilingual dictionaries do  not provide satisfactory answers.
Bilingual concordancing would enable him/her to retrieve  examples of these expressions together with their translations in a database of the TransBase kind.
This could be useful not only for idiomatic expressions, but also for specialized terminology  or domain-specific formulae (To whom it may concern... , Attendu que...).
See Macklovitch [16] for  a more detailed discussion of this issue.
TransSearch is just such a tool:
it allows one to extract occurrences of specific `expressions' from  the database, and to visualize them within their bilingual context.
Because the software is primarily  aimed at translators, who are likely to use it as just another reference source, it is designed to be used interactively and to provide answers in real-time. This is just what the inclusion of word-form  indexes within the TransBase model is meant to allow for.
Because most translators are not computer experts, much attention has been devoted to the user- friendliness of the TransSearch interface.
Using an intuitive, graphically-oriented query language,  it is easy for a user to submit complex queries to the database.
Every such query defines a logical  expression on sequences of word-forms:
when the query is submitted, the system produces all the  couples that satisfy this expression in the alignment component of the database.
In addition, the  inclusion of dictionaries and morphological descriptions of both French and English allows TransSearch to automatically match any inflectional variant of query items.
The result of a query is normally presented in a two-column format, where mutual translations  appear side-by-side.
The user can either examine one match at a time within the document from  which it was drawn, or collect all matches with a small portion of their immediate context, the way concordances are usually presented.
Figure 5 gives an idea of a typical session with TransSearch.
In this example, the user has queried  the system for occurrences of the English expression take X to court which are not translated in French as poursuivre X or intenter un (or des) procès à X, and the database searched consists of the 1986 Canadian Hansard translations.
The translators to whom we have shown the system  invariably concluded that bilingual concordancing would be very useful to them.
Figure 5:
A session with TransSearch
4.
Translation checking
4.1
Translation Analysis and Error Detection
In recent years, we have witnessed the appearance on the market of text critiquing tools meant to  help writers improve their texts by spotting potential problems in spelling, grammar and even style.
While these tools can in principle help translators correct writing errors in the target language text,  there is no way they can help them correct translation errors in the strict sense of the term, that is, incorrect correspondences between the source and target texts.
For example, they cannot help  with cases of mistranslation in which both texts are individually correct and meaningful, but do not happen to mean the same thing.
Such errors can only be detected by a device that simultaneously  examines the source and target texts.
In other words, a device that comprises a translation  analyzer.
Given a translation analyzer capable of reconstructing some subset Cset of the correspondences  that are observable in the result of some translation operation, and given some set of constraints C on admissible correspondences, a translation checker is a device that helps the translator ensure that Cset indeed satisfies C.
This requires a translation analyzer based on a `robust' translation  model, a model capable of observing actual correspondences that may be deviant with respect to the norm defined by C.
The general problem of translation quality is a notoriously complex and vexing issue.
It is certainly  not our intention to propose any global metric or method for evaluating translations.
Our aim is  more modest.
We only want to identify some particularly simple properties that most translators  will want their translations to possess and devise some tools that will help them verify these properties.
One rather obvious candidate is the property of exhaustivity.
Normally, all parts of the source text  should have a corresponding element in the target text.
But translators sometimes make omission  errors, forgetting for example to translate a sentence, a paragraph, or even a complete page.
In  such cases an adequate translation analyzer should realize that a source language segment is being mapped onto an empty target language segment.
The checking device could then warn the  translator, pointing out a possible problem in his draft translation.
Another candidate property is terminological coherence.
In technical translations, one and the  same target language term should be used to translate all occurrences of any particular source language term.
A process of translation analysis capable of bringing out term correspondences  between a draft translation and its source would presumably make it possible to help translators enforce terminological coherence.
A third constraint that translations are expected to obey is the absence of source language  interference.
Some cases of interference result in constructs that are ill-formed with respect to the  target language. Their detection is possible without any need to look at the source text.
For  example, if the English word address is translated as addresse (with two d's) in French, an ordinary French spell checker should be able to flag the problem.
But there are also cases in  which interference results not in ill-formedness but rather in mistranslation.
Deceptive cognates,  for example, tend to generate this kind of interference.
Word we of language Le and word wf of language Lf are cognates when their forms are similar due  to shared etymology.
For example, the English word `government' and the French word  `gouvernement' are cognates.
Most often, these words are not only cross-linguistic homonyms but  they are synonyms as well.
However, in some cases the synonymy does not hold.
For example,  the following pairs of English/French cognates have completely disjoint meanings: <actual, actuel>, <library, librairie>, <physician, physicien>.
Such cognates are said to be `deceptive'  because of the misleading semantic expectation induced by their morphological similarity.
The  sentence Max se rendit à la librairie is perfectly well-formed in French, but used as a translation for Max went to the library, it would constitute a blatant case of mistranslation.
To the extent that a  translation analyzer is capable of observing in a draft translation an actual correspondence between cognates known to be deceptive, this correspondence can be flagged as a possible error for the translator to verify.
There are probably several other types of translation errors that translation analysis could help  detect.
Research in this area is just starting.
In order to get a better idea of the practical potential of  this approach we conducted an experiment on the detection of deceptive cognates in actual translations.
4.2
An Experiment on the Detection of Deceptive Cognates
Deceptive cognates (DC's) can be subclassified as to whether they are complete or partial.
Complete DC's, like the examples given above, have the property that their meanings are  completely disjoint, and as a consequence can never be used as mutual translations.
Partial DC's,  on the other hand, have partially overlapping meanings, and are mutually translatable in some subset of their possible uses.
For example, the French verb examiner is sometimes equivalent (`')  and sometimes non-equivalent (`') to the English verb to examine:
The doctor examined his patient
Le médecin examina son patient
The professor examined his students
Le professeur examina ses étudiants.
Concentrating for the moment on the easier problem of complete DC's, we conducted an  experiment aimed at: 1) assessing the amplitude of the problem in actual translations; and 2) evaluating the effectiveness of some straightforward detection methods.
We assembled a simple translation analyzer, TA1, that instantiates the model of Figure 1 as  follows:
language models for French and English are reduced to processes of `tokenization' and  morphological analysis (based on a dictionary and a set of inflection rules).
The output of these  language models is a simple morphological representation of the input text:
each token is  represented as the set of citation forms of the lexical entries of which it is potentially an instance.
The correspondence model used in TA1 is simply the sentence alignment program of Simard,  Foster & Isabelle [20].
Its output representation is a sequence <<e1,f1>, <e2,f2>, ... <en,fn>> where  each ei is a sequence of zero, one or two morphologically represented sentences of the English text, each fj is a sequence of zero, one or two morphologically represented sentences of the French text, and each <ei,fi> is a translation correspondence.
We extracted from van Roey & al. [22] a list of 145 word pairs which were classified as DC's of the  `complete' variety: <accomodate, accomoder>, <actually, actuellement>, etc.
We then  implemented a straightforward checker that would search the output of TA1 and for each word pair <we, wf> would return the set of sentence pairs <ei, fi> such that we ¿ ei (i.e. ei contains the word we) and wf ¿ fi.
Obviously, this condition can be met by pairs of sentences in which we and wf  appear without being used as mutual translations.
We then tested this rather simplistic device on one year of Hansard translations.
Hand-checking  the results, we found out that many genuine cases of translation errors were retrieved, as in the following:
The peace movement in Canada is composed of physicians, members of the church, [...]
-> Le mouvement canadien pour la paix compte dans ses rangs des physiciens, des  ecclésiatiques, [...]
(Hansard, 1987/09/29)
There are parts of this bill which concern librarians and the artistic community. -> Quelque part dans ce projet de loi, il est question des libraires et des artistes.
(Hansard, 1987/11/30)
But as Table 1 shows, the results were also very noisy.
Table 1:
Results of DC retrieval in TA1's output
The noise was generated by three different sources.
First, there are cases where the `deceptivity'  of <we, wf> is relative to their part of speech (POS).
For example the French noun local and the  English noun local are complete DC's but their homograph adjectives are not.
Since POS  information was not taken into account, irrelevant cases were retrieved.
Second, some of the  noise was engendered by untranslated quotations.
For example, agenda (English) and agenda  (French) are complete DC's.
Since the forms are perfectly identical, our checker was unable to  distinguish among the two, and would consequently retrieve cases where agenda appears on both sides simply as a consequence of the fact that one of the texts contains it in the form of an untranslated quotation from the other language.
Third, there were cases where we and wf did  appear in sentences that were mutual translations, but in such a way that these words were not themselves used as mutual translations.
Our correspondence model (that is, sentence alignment)  was simply too coarse to filter out these cases.
The breakdown between these noise sources  was as shown in Table 2.
Table 2:
Noise categorization for DC retrieval in TA1's output
Given these figures, POS tagging was obviously called for.
The translation analyzer was therefore  replaced with a new one, TA2, that differed from TA1 only in that its two language models were augmented with the POS tagger of Foster [10].
The search process was modified so as to take  into account POS information associated with our 145 pairs of DC's.
This scheme produced much  better results, as shown in Tables 3 and 4.
Table 3:
Results of DC retrieval in TA2's output
Table 4:
Noise categorization for DC retrieval in TA2's output
POS tagging dramatically reduced the noise, with no more than a marginal effect on the recall  (one case is lost).
This spectacular effect is in a large measure attributable to the resolution of  problems associated with a small number of frequent words (like the case of local mentioned above).
Part of the remaining noise is due to tagging errors, but the largest proportion is now  attributable to the coarseness of our correspondence model.
Better models would no doubt improve DC detection.
However, the performance level of the  computationally cheap method tested here may well prove sufficient for real-life applications.
5.
Translation Dictation:
TransTalk
A recurring theme of this paper has been that weak models of translation, if used realistically, can  provide useful tools for the human translator, without imposing artificial constraints on his activity.
One invaluable addition to the translator's workstation would be an automatic dictation module:  many professional translators prefer to dictate their translations rather than doing the typing themselves (Gurstein & Monette [11]).
At the present time, speech-recognition technology is severely limited when confronted with large- vocabularies, and is therefore inapplicable to the task of most translators.
An intriguing possibility,  however, is that of teaming the speech-recognition module with a (weak) translation model.
The  MT model would then be used to make probabilistic predictions of the possible target language verbalizations freely produced by the translator, so as to dynamically reduce the "effective probable vocabulary" considered by the speech-recognition module on each dictation unit (sentence or paragraph) to such an extent that complete recognition of these units can be attempted.
For example, it is clear that the probabilistic composition of the vocabulary considered by a speech  recognizer attempting to decode the spoken French sentence:
Ces impôts cachés doivent être  acquittés par les pauvres aussi bien que par les riches should be markedly different depending on whether its English source The poor as well as the rich have to pay these extra hidden taxes is available or not.
A French translation of this English sentence is for instance much more likely to  contain the word impôts than is a French sentence taken at random.
It seems reasonable to hope  that a weak translation model could make this composition available to the speech recognizer.
This idea was independently advanced by Dymetman, Foster & Isabelle [9] and by Brown & al. [4].
We have launched a joint project with the speech-recognition group at CRIM (Centre de  Recherche Informatique de Montréal), the TransTalk project, aimed at proving the feasibility of the approach, using English as the source language and French as the dictation language.
Initially we  intend to restrict dictation to an isolated-word mode, then to progress to a connected-speech mode.
The TransSearch and TransCheck projects discussed above involved the development of  translation analyzers comprising French and English language models and a French-English correspondence model (sentence alignment) that were trained on the Hansard corpus.
The  Hansard domain is thus a natural choice for the TransTalk project, since existing modules will then provide fundamental resources for TransTalk.
Actually, one can view TransTalk as incorporating a  translation analyzer much like those described above, except that it has the capability of dealing with target language that is a spoken rather than written.
TransTalk is based on a probabilistic model p of translation dictation relating an English written  textual unit e, its French written translation f (to simplify matters, we assume here that textual units are sentences), and the acoustic counterpart s of f.
Both e and s are known to the system, and  TransTalk's job is to provide an estimate  of the actual f intended by the translator:
One is thus led to define  as:

that is,  is the most probable French sentence according to the model p, given both the source  English sentence and the acoustic realisation of the French sentence.
By Bayes's formula, this equation can be rewritten as:

where the last equality is a consequence of the mild assumption that once f is known, further  knowledge of e cannot add anything to the determination of s.
This equation is strongly reminiscent of the "fundamental formula" of statistical speech-recognition  (Bahl & al [2]):

where the distributions p(s | f) and p(f) are known as the acoustic model and language model  respectively.
In the situation considered here, the pure language model p(f) has been replaced by  a "conditional language model" p(f | e), where knowledge of e "sharpens" the statistical structure of the language model, in particular by making it "concentrate" its attention on a limited lexical subset of the whole language.
A quantitative measure of this "sharpening" can be given in terms of  perplexity, an information-theoretic quantity which measures the average uncertainty a given language model entertains about the next word to appear in a natural text, having seen the preceding words:
the less the perplexity, the more predictive the model (Jelinek [15]).
Brown et al.  [4] report the results of an experiment with the Hansards, using one of their simpler translation models (from French to English, in their case), which show the per-word perplexity of their pure (English) language model to average 63.3, while the perplexity of their conditional language model drops to an average of 17.2.
These results are highly encouraging for the dictation task, for they  mean that the acoustic module should be able to discriminate, given one English spoken word, in average between 17.2 equiprobable candidates proposed by the conditional language model, as opposed to 63.3 equiprobable candidates proposed by the pure language model.
Several approaches are possible to the modelling of p(f | e).
A first approach, proposed by the IBM  team, is to use Bayes' formula and to write, by analogy to the standard formulation of the speech- recognition problem:

where (in their terminology) p(e|f) is the "translation model", which plays a role similar to the  acoustic model in speech recognition.
One is thus led to a symmetrical formula for the whole  translation dictation model where p(f) is the language model, p(s|f) the acoustic model, and p(e|f) the translation model.
This method has two advantages:
(1)
it relies on a unique language model  for French, and (2) the work at IBM on statistical MT seems to indicate that even rough approximations to p(e|f), when teamed with a good language model for French, result in acceptable approximations to the conditional language model p(f|e).
It is as if there were a  "division of work" between p(f), responsible for the well-formedness of French sentences, and p(e|f), responsible for pairing between English and French sentences (hence the somewhat misleading terminology "translation model") without much regard for either the internal structure of French or the internal structure of English(see [9] for details).
The method has, however, one  important shortcoming in terms of processing:
it requires an extensive search among the  sentences f in order to maximize p(e|f) p(f) (not counting the p(s|f) factor, which only makes matters worse).
This is known to present serious practical difficulties in terms of non-optimal  search results as well as in terms of processing time, this last factor being obviously of central importance in a dictation application.
A second approach to the modelling of p(f | e) is to consider a priori a certain parametrized family   of language models for French, to describe a mapping , and then to define the conditional language model through:

Although it presents the inconvenience of dispensing with a unique reference language model for  French, this approach can be efficiently implemented if the family is well-chosen.
One  possibility that we are currently investigating is to adapt a language model proposed in [10].
This  model is a kind of "tri-POS" hidden Markov model, depending on two families of parameters.
The  first family  gives the probability of generating a word having part-of-speech POSk, given that words with parts-of-speech POSi and POSj have been previously generated.
The second family   gives the probability that a given part-of-speech POSi is associated with word w.
That is,  conceptually at least, the model first generates part-of-speech strings, using a context window of the two previously generated parts-of-speech, then "decorates" each part-of-speech with a given word form, depending only on this part-of-speech.
The  parameters represent an  approximation to the "grammatical" structure of French, while the  parameters represent an approximation to its "lexical" structure.
We propose to experiment with a scheme where these parameters vary dynamically depending on  the observed source sentence e.
One interesting possibility is to keep the "grammatical  parameters" fixed at their global French language values (neglecting the influence of the grammatical make-up of the English sentence on its translation), while modifying the "lexical" parameters depending on the lexical make-up of the English sentence.
The first family of  parameters can be estimated reliably on a sufficiently large French corpus, while the second family of parameters, depending on e, can be estimated if certain simplifying assumptions akin to the Translation Model 1 of Brown & al. [5] are made.
Basically, each  is considered to be  the average of the contributions  made by each English word we in e to the probability of realising part-of-speech POSi as the French word wf.
In order to estimate the  parameters , it is necessary to have a pre-aligned training corpus of English- French bitexts (see section 3).
It is then possible to start with initial guesses for the   parameters, and use standard reestimation techniques (see [5]) on this training corpus to maximize the predictive power of these parameters, while holding grammatical parameters fixed.
The main advantage of this approach is that, for each source sentence e, the conditional language  model in effect reduces to a simple Hidden Markov Model , and the translation dictation problem then takes the form familiar in speech-recognition:

for which powerful search techniques are available (Bahl & al [2]).
6.
Conclusions
A new generation of translation support tools is just around the corner.
Thanks to the development  of translation analysis techniques, translator's workstations will soon be able to offer much more  to their users than mere office automation functions.
Translators will soon be in a position to tap  the vast potential lying dormant in their past production.
They will soon be able to receive  assistance in checking their translations for errors.
And speech input stands a good chance of  becoming a reality for them long before it does for monolinguals.
We would not be surprised to see the list of applications based on the concept of translation  analysis expand rapidly.
We wish classical MT well, but the real action is likely to be with  translator's aids for quite a few years to come!
REFERENCES
[1]
Bar-Hillel Y., The State of Machine Translation in 1951, in American Documentation, vol. 2,  1951, pp. 229-237.
[2]
Bahl L., Jelinek F., Mercer R. A maximum likelihood approach to continuous speech  recognition, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,   PAMI- 5(2):179--191, March 1983.
[3]
Brown P., Lai J., Mercer R., Aligning Sentences in Parallel Corpora, Proceedings of the 29th  Meeting of the ACL, 1991.
[4]
Brown P., Chen S., Della Pietra S., Della Pietra V., Kehler S., Mercer R. Automatic speech  recognition in machine aided translation, 1992. (to appear).
[5]
Brown P., Della Pietra S, Della Pietra V, Mercer R. The Mathematics of Machine  Translation: Parameter Estimation, (to appear).
[6]
Church K., Gale W., Concordances for Parallel Texts, in Proceedings of the 7th Annual  Conference the UW Centre for the NOED and Text Research, Oxford, 1991.
[7]
Debili F., Sammouda E., Appariement des phrases de textes bilingues Français-Anglais et  Français-Arabes, Proceedings of COLING-92, Nantes, 1992.
[8]
Dymetman M., Transformations de grammaires logiques et réversibilité en traduction  automatique, thèse d'état, Université de Grenoble 1, France, 1992.
[9]
Dymetman M., Foster G., Isabelle P., Towards an Automatic Dictation System for  Translators (Transtalk), Tech. report, CITI, Laval, Quebec, Canada, 1992.
[10]
Foster G., Statistical Lexical Disambiguation. Master's thesis, McGill University, School of  Computer Science, 1991.
[11]
Gurstein M. and Monette M. Functional Specifications for a Translator's Workstation. Technical Report 12SD. 36902-5-0003, Socioscope Inc, Ottawa,   Canada, October 1988. Report submitted to the Canadian Workplace Automation Research  Center.
[12]
Isabelle P., Machine Translation at the TAUM Group, in Margaret King (ed.), Machine  Translation Today: The State of the Art, Edinburgh University Press, 1987.
[13]
Isabelle P., Bi-Textual Aids for Translators, Proceedings of the Eight Annual Conference  of the UW Centre for the New OED and Text Research, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada, 1992.
[14]
Isabelle P., Dymetman M., Macklovitch E., CRITTER: a Translation System for Agricultural  Market Reports, Proceedings of COLING-88, Budapest, 1988.
[15]
Jelinek F. Self-Organized Modeling for Speech Recognition, in Alex Waibel and Kai-Fu Lee,  editors, Readings in Speech Recognition, pages 450--506. Morgan Kaufmann, San Mateo,  CA, 1990.
[16]
Macklovitch E., Corpus-Based Tools for Translators, Proceedings of the 33rd Annual  Conference of the American Translators Association, San Diego, 1992.
[17]
Macklovitch E., A Third Version of the CWARC's Workstation for Translators, Tech. report, CITI, Laval, Quebec, Canada, 1993.
[18]
Kay M., The Proper Place of Men and Machines in Translation, CSL-80-11, Xerox PARC,  1980.
[19]
Sato S., Nagao M., Toward Memory-Based Translation, Proceedings of COLING-90, 247- 252, 1990.
[20]
Simard M., Foster G., Isabelle P. Using Cognates to Align Sentences in Parallel Corpora,  Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Machine Translation, Montreal, 1992.
[21]
Van Noord G., Reversibility in Natural Language Processing, CIP-Gegevens Konincklijke  Bibliotheek, The Hague, 1993.
[22]
Van Roey J., Granger S., Swallow H., Dictionnaire des faux-amis français-anglais, Paris,  Duculot, 1988.
Can Terminological Consistency  Be Validated Automatically?
Elliott Macklovitch
1.
Introduction
It often happens in translation services that lengthy texts have to be divided up among several  translators, some of whom may be freelancers who work outside the service.
In such situations, it  is generally the reviser's job to piece together the parts translated by different people and to ensure that the resulting final text is coherent.
One particularly arduous aspect of this job is to see to it that  the terminology of the final text is consistent, or uniform.
Intuitively, it is quite clear what we mean  by terminological consistency here:
each terminological unit should receive the same translation  throughout the final text, so that readers are not unduly confused.
Terminological consistency is generally accepted as being one property of a good translation,  and of course the situation described above is not the only one in which it comes into play.
At the  CITI, we are currently developing a novel kind of machine-aided system that is specifically designed to support human translators in the revision process by validating certain properties of a translated text.
The system is called TransCheck, and in its first prototype version it is capable of  detecting some of the more frequently occurring types of translation errors, including deceptive cognates, calques, illicit borrowings, and other sorts of translation improprieties.
It is important to  note that most of these errors are generally beyond the reach of monolingual writing aids such as spelling or grammar checkers, precisely because translation errors are bilingual in nature and depend upon relations that exist between two texts in different languages.
TransCheck, on the other  hand, can detect these errors, because the system was specially designed to handle this particular kind of parallel text.
To be more precise, TransCheck seeks to reconstitute part of the human  translation process by automatically aligning two texts; that is to say, the system attempts to explicitly link various segments in a source language text with what it automatically determines to be the corresponding segments in its target language translation.
For a detailed description of the  first TransCheck prototype, see (Macklovitch 1994);
the following gives a general idea of how  users might employ such a translation checker.
Before TransCheck can verify any properties of a translation, the source and target language  files must be submitted to the system for alignment.
The actual algorithms that the program uses  to automatically calculate the correct correspondences between the two texts need not concern us here.
Suffice it to say that when the resolution of the alignments does not go beyond the level of  the sentence, the program is highly accurate;
furthermore, it is capable of handling cases where a  sentence in one language is translated by two or even three sentences in the other language, and vice versa.
Following (Harris 1988), we will call the output of such an alignment program a "bi- text".
Now suppose that a reviser wanted to validate a draft translation before sending it out to the  client, to ensure that it was free of source language interference; this too is a generally accepted property of a good translation.
S/he could call upon TransCheck to help do this, in much the same  manner that monolingual writers commonly use a spelling checker to ensure that their texts are free of spelling errors.
The CITI's first TransCheck prototype incorporates a database of approximately  2800 prohibited translation pairs, including many of the classic examples of deceptive cognates, like "library//librairie" and "deception//déception".
Concretely, what the system does is take each  of the entries in this database and apply it in turn to the bi-text produced by the alignment program.
If it finds any SL segment containing "library", for example, that is aligned with a TL segment  containing "librairie", it flags that aligned pair for the reviser's attention.
During a subsequent  editing session, the reviser reviews all the flagged segments and makes any necessary corrections to the target text, including those that the system itself suggests, drawn from each database entry.
(A screen dump of a TransCheck editing session appears on the following page.)
This basically is how TransCheck operates to detect cases of source language interference in  a draft translation.
We are in the process of working on a number of extensions to the first  TransCheck prototype that will hopefully allow the system to automatically detect the omission of major textual units and to verify the correct transposition of various types of numerical expressions.
Another important question that we are currently exploring is whether a tool like  TransCheck could be of help in verifying the terminological consistency of a draft translation.
It is  the results of these first experiments on terminology that I will be reporting on here.
Again, the  basic idea is quite simple and actually quite similar to the way in which cases of SL interference are detected.
Suppose we adopt as our starting point the naive definition of terminological  consistency given above, namely that each occurrence of a designated source term must be translated quite literally as a specified target term.
Suppose too that the reviser is able to enumerate  the terms s/he wants checked for consistency before beginning the revision of the draft translation.
This might take the form of a text-specific glossary in which each entry is a simple term  equivalence statement - nothing more than "e-term1 = f-term1".
A bi-text would be produced from  the source text and the draft translation, as before.
The system would then convert the entries in the  reviser's term equivalence glossary into a series of TransCheck queries and apply each in turn to the bi-text.
Those aligned segments found to contain one of the specified source terms BUT NOT  the corresponding target term would once again be flagged for the reviser's attention.
In order to test this idea, we decided to undertake a small-scale feasibility study, although at  the outset, our expectation was that this schema would be altogether too simplistic to allow for the development of an operational term checking system.
But where exactly would it fail?
What are  the kinds of problems it would run up against and what is their relative importance?
Which of these  problems would be amenable to short-term solutions and which would have to await the results of long-term research?
To help us answer questions like these, which are crucial if we are to  eventually develop an operational term consistency checker, we decided to implement a rudimentary version of the schema outlined above within the current TransCheck prototype, and to apply it to a number of authentic translations.
2.
The Feasibility Study
2.1
Methodology
For our feasibility study, we sought to obtain a number of texts from different domains, each  with two versions of the target translation: a preliminary or draft version, and a final revised version.
(Recall that TransCheck is meant to flag potential errors in a draft translation.)
It turns out,  however, that it is not as easy as one might imagine to obtain authentic draft translations, however these are defined.
When asked for texts to be used in experiments on error detection, translators  and translation services are understandably reticent to hand over their unfinished products, even when they are told that it is strictly for research purposes and reassured that their identities will be kept anonymous.
As a result, we were forced to make certain compromises in our methodology,  particularly with regard to the first of the texts that we analysed.
For each of the four source texts we did obtain, we selected twenty-five of the most frequent  or salient terms, with the help of an in-house program for candidate term extraction called F- TERM.
F-TERM is based on ideas first proposed in (Justeson & Katz 1993).
It operates on a text  that has previously been assigned part-of-speech tags and extracts sequences of words that correspond to a syntactic definition of a multi-word term:
for English, this is basically a noun  phrase stripped of its determiner and consisting of a string of nouns and/or adjectives ending in a noun and followed by an optional prepositional phrase.
Again, it should be emphasized that what  the program produces is a list of candidate terms, which are sorted by the frequency of their appearance in the text;
most of these, at least at the top of the list, do turn out to be valid terms,  however.
On the other hand, not all the terms in a text are found in the list.
For one thing, F-TERM  ignores single-word terms; for another, automatic tagging problems can lead to the inclusion of sequences that are not well-formed noun phrases and to the omission of others that are.
Most  importantly, F-TERM has no notion of what distinguishes a non-lexical (or descriptive) NP from a bona-fide term, apart from the literal repetition of the expression in the text.
We located the translation of each selected source term in the final version of the  corresponding target language text.
When the TL text contained conflicting equivalents for the  same source term, we selected the most frequently occurring target term, occasionally appealing to TERMIUM, the Canadian government's well-known term bank, to help us arbitrate.
These  translations reflect part of the reviser's decisions on the proper terminology for the text, and they were formalized as the simple term equivalency statements and converted into TransCheck queries, as outlined above.
TransCheck could then scan the bi-text produced from each source text  and its draft translation, and flag all cases in which a source term was not rendered exactly as the specified target term, or an inflectional variant of that target term.
Finally, by analysing the  system's output and comparing the potential inconsistencies flagged by TransCheck with the terminology of the final version, we hoped be able to get a clearer idea of the major difficulties facing this type of approach.
2.2
The texts
Given our initial difficulty in obtaining draft translations, we decided to proceed with our first  test on term consistency checking using an 80-thousand word army manual on sniper training and deployment, for which we had the English original and a final French version but no preliminary draft translation.
Moreover, this was a manual that had actually been published in both official  languages, and so presumably the terminology in the final French version had already been checked for consistency.
These may at first appear to be formidable obstacles;
however, at this  point, we were more interested in the types of noise that TransCheck would generate when called upon to verify term consistency than in any isolated errors the reviser of this text may have overlooked.
The twenty-five terms that we selected for the Sniper text are listed in the first column of  Table 1, which appears at the end of this paper.
The third column of the Table gives the target term  (TT) that corresponds to each source term in the final French translation.
Column 2 indicates the  total number of occurrences of each source term (ST), and column 4, the number of times which that source term is NOT translated exactly as the target term.
Taking the first entry in the Table, for  example, we see that "sniper" appears a total of 1277 times in the text, and that of these, 105 occurrences are not translated as "tireur d'élite".
The remaining five columns in Table 1 provide a  breakdown of these cases in which ST =//= TT.
" Head only" refers to cases in which a multi-word  target term is truncated, so that only the head word is used instead of the full term;
see (1) below  for examples.
The next column, "Pron", is for cases in which the French text employs a pronoun  or other kind of anaphor instead of the full target noun phrase; see (2) below for examples.
The  column headed "ST not trans" refers to cases in which the source term is not actually translated in the target text: either it is entirely omitted, or in some cases the translation provides a paraphrase instead of an equivalent term; see (3) below for an example of each.
The "Alt. TT" column is for  those cases in which the French text employs an alternative term to the one given in the third column.
In a few instances in the Sniper text, these may in fact be true terminological  inconsistencies, but, as we would expect in a published manual, they are not very numerous;
some  possible examples are given in (4) below.
The final column, "Other", is for all cases that do not fall  into the preceding categories.
These include instances of coordination and other grammatical  constructions which fragment the target term (see 5 below for examples); system noise that arises due to tagging problems; and a variety of minor spelling or typing errors that are detected by TransCheck but do not really qualify as terminological inconsistencies.
(1a)
... the sniper moves his head back and forth
=> 	... le tireur déplace la tête vers l'avant ou vers...
(1b)
The Unertl telescopic sight is a fixed 10 power...
=> 	La lunette Unertl grossit 10 fois et ...
(2a)
The sniper places his hand to his chest...
=>  	Il place la main contre sa poitrine...
(2b)
Snipers will infiltrate enemy areas...
=>  	Ces derniers infiltrent les secteurs de l'ennemi...
(3a)
IDENTIFYING SNIPER TARGETS
=>  	IDENTIFICATION DES CIBLES
(3b)
Adjustment for eye relief should be made by...
=>  	L'ajustement de la distance entre l'oeil et la lunette se fait en...
(4a)
The sniper can insert a pad on the ghillie suit...
=>  	Le tireur d'élite peut insérer un coussin dans sa tenue de camouflage...
(4b)
... which is supported from underneath by the top of the trigger...
=>  	... qui est supportée du dessous par la tête du percuteur...
(5a)
direct or indirect fire
=> tirs direct ou indirect
(5b)
Determining correct eye relief
=> Déterminer le dégagement correct de l'oeil
We refer to the next text we analysed as the Dairy text;
it came from the Department of  Agriculture and is an economic analysis of the competitiveness of the Canadian milk and dairy products industry.
The translation had been contracted out to a private sector service bureau; before  being sent on to the client department, however, the text underwent a summary revision known as quality assurance, which was carried out by a senior translator in the government's own translation bureau.
Although the outside service bureau did not specify how many translators had actually  worked on the text, there are strong indications that at least two were involved:
there is a change  in the font style part way through the word processing file delivered by the service bureau; this coincides, moreover, with a change in the target terminology for a number of source terms.
One of  the concerns of the government reviser, therefore, was to ensure that in the final French translation the terminology employed was consistent throughout.
Table 2 at the end of this paper lists the  twenty-five source terms we selected for this text, along with their TL equivalents and the breakdown of all the cases of non-correspondence.
The third text, which we refer to as PIBD, is part of a manual from the Department of  External Affairs describing departmental policy and procedures for organizing business promotion events, under the government's Program for International Business Development.
The original  English, which was approximately 16 thousand words long, divides into two distinct parts: a well- structured description, written in standard bureaucratese, of the program and its procedures; this is followed by a series of disjoint appendices, containing government forms, multiple choice questionnaires, sample contracts, etc.
Here, we know for a fact that the two parts were assigned to  different translators within the government's own translation bureau.
The source terms we selected  for this text and their target term equivalents appear in Table 3.
The final text we analysed, which we refer to as Cluster, was only 4235 words long, but was  still assigned to two translators, because the time allowed for its translation was very short.
The  text came from the Department of Industry, Science and Technology, and is a call for proposals for a particular type of economic study to be conducted in western Canada, based on the concept of cluster analysis.
Those parts of the RFP which describe the work to be done (the deliverables,  dates, selection criteria, etc.) are intended for the general public, and are not very technical;
but the  text also provides some background information on the theory of cluster analysis, and so indirectly refers to a relatively specialized area of economics.
Table 4 lists the source terms we selected for  the Cluster text, along with their target term equivalents and the breakdown of the non- correspondences.
Before we examine the results TransCheck produced on these four texts, there is an important  question of definition which we should address regarding our use of the word "term".
At the outset  of this study, we assumed that the units which a reviser would want to verify in a draft translation would all be bona-fide terms, in the technical sense of that word, i.e. elements of a specialized vocabulary describing the fundamental concepts and relations within a specialized domain.
This  assumption was not entirely warranted, however.
One of the things we discovered in working with  the reviser who performed the quality assurance on three of our texts is that the term/non-term distinction is not critical for the job of ensuring a consistent translation.
Many of the units which  the reviser had wanted to verify for consistency in these draft translations did turn out to be terms (with records in TERMIUM), but others did not; while in other cases still, the terminological status of the units was difficult to determine.
In fact, the distinction between specialized terms and words  of the general vocabulary in any given text is not always clear, even to a terminologist.
The reader  should bear this in mind when examining the lists of source terms in Tables 1-4, since some of these - the acronyms, for example, which occur so frequently in the PIBD text - may not at first appear to be terms.
We make no claims about the terminological status of the 100 units we selected for our  feasibility study.
Just as Martin Kay has defined translation as what translators do, so we would  like TransCheck to support and assist revisers in what they do.
Insofar as term consistency  checking is concerned, our reviser informed us that the overriding goal was to avoid reader confusion;
whether the units that need to be rendered uniformly in order to attain this goal are bona- fide terms or not is more or less incidental.
For lack of a convenient alternative, however, we shall  continue to employ the word "term" in this paper, although we would prefer not to be held to its technical definition.
3.
Results
Table 5 on the next page presents a synthesis of the results which are tabulated separately for  the four texts in Tables 1-4.
Notice that the figures given here correspond to the total number of  occurrences in each column of Tables 1-4, generated by the twenty-five pairs of terms that were selected for each of the Sniper, Dairy, PIBD and Cluster texts.
Let us focus, to begin with, on the figures in the third column of Table 5, which give the  overall non-correspondence rates for each text, or the proportion of source term tokens that were not translated exactly as the target terms specified in that text's equivalence glossary.
Notice that  at 8.5%, the non-correspondence rate for the Sniper text is significantly lower than the non- correspondence rates for the other three texts.
Recall, however, that the French version of the  Sniper text submitted to TransCheck was actually a published translation which had presumably been verified for term consistency;
whereas in the case of the other three texts, the system was  verifying a preliminary translation.
Hence, this discrepancy in the non-correspondence rates is not  really an anomaly;
indeed, if our hypothesis about how the texts were translated is correct, this is  more or less what we would expect to find.
Notice, moreover, that the non-correspondence rates on  the three texts other than Sniper are relatively constant: 30% on both the Dairy and the Cluster texts, and 24% on PIBD.
Table 5 reveals another significant difference between the results obtained on the Sniper text  and those of the other three translations:
the number of cases in which a target term is rendered by  a pronoun or other anaphor is much higher in Sniper (35 occurrences under "Pron." versus 11 in  total for the other three texts);
and the same is true, though to a lesser extent, for the number of  occurrences of "Head only", or target term truncation (29% of non-correspondences in Sniper, versus 19%, 18% and 0% in the Dairy, PIBD and Cluster texts respectively.)
Why this should be Table 5: Cumulative results for the four texts: so is not altogether obvious.
It may have to do with the fact that the term "sniper" occurs so  frequently in that text: hence, recourse to such anaphoric devices avoids the awkward repetition of "tireur d'élite", allowing for a target text that is lighter and somewhat more varied.
Or perhaps the  explanation has more to do with pragmatics:
there is only one possible referent for "sniper" in this  text (the prototypical trainee to whom this manual is addressed), whereas truncated terms in the other texts may be more ambiguous in the entities they refer to.

Turning now to the other categories in Table 5, we observe that the proportion of non- correspondences attributable to alternative terms (Alt. TT) is much higher in the PIBD and Cluster  texts than it is in the Sniper or Dairy texts.
As it happens, PIBD and Cluster are the least technical  of the four texts we analysed;
that at least is the distinct impression one has in reading through these  source texts.
Actually, we may be able to corroborate this impression using the outputs of our F- TERM program.
F-term, recall, locates sequences of words that correspond to a syntactic definition  of a multi-word term.
Following (Justeson & Katz 1993), we shall assume for the sake of this  argument that most of the multi-word sequences which reoccur verbatim at least twice in a text are in fact terminological units.
In the Cluster text, for example, F-TERM identifies 377 multi-word  term candidates, of which only 49 occur more than once in the text.
The total number of tokens  corresponding to these 49 candidate terms is 125;
and if we add to these the 43 occurrences of the  single-word term "cluster", which, like the word "sniper", is the most frequent term in its text, we arrive at a total of 168 term tokens in a text that is 4235 words long.
Dividing the total number of  words in the text by the number of candidate term tokens should give us a very rough correlate of term density: in the case of the Cluster text, 25.21 words of text per term.
By way of comparison,  the same calculation for the Dairy text, which is perhaps the most technical of the four we analysed, yields a much lower ratio of words per term: 9.42.
The figure for the Sniper text is 19.14; and for  the PIBD text, which was even less technical than Cluster, 32.60.
As discussed in section 2 above,  we are aware that the results produced by F-TERM are not entirely reliable; all we need to assume here, however, is that F-TERM's weaknesses are constant across various texts.
These figures, then,  do not have any absolute value; but they do seem to correlate with the relative term density of the four texts we analysed.
Now term density is undoubtedly one element that contributes to the  impression of text's "technicity", and so we may be tempted to postulate an inverse correlation between it and the tendency to allow for greater term variability in a text.
But overall term density  is certainly not the crucial factor in determining when a reviser will decide that a particular alternative term is acceptable in the context of a given translation.
Our analysis seems to suggest  that the terms most susceptible to this kind of alternation are those that are general and non- technical in nature, whose referent will normally be obvious to all readers.
For example, "la  province" tends to be an acceptable equivalent for "gouvernement provincial" in most contexts, and in fact is permitted by the reviser in the PIBD text.
Again, where there is no risk of confusing  the reader, this kind of variation may actually produce a more readable target text.
Elsewhere in the  PIBD draft, however, the terms "project manager" and "reporting officer" are both occasionally rendered as "agent responsable";
here, the reviser felt it necessary to correct the alternative and  maintain three distinct terms, since these various functions could well be assumed by different persons.
Another of the results in Table 5 that calls for comment is the high proportion of cases in the  Dairy text in which the source term is not actually translated but is either omitted or paraphrased in the target:
"ST not trans" accounts for 52% of the non-correspondences in that text.
Analysing  the segments that TransCheck flagged in the preliminary translation and comparing these to the final French version, we did come across a number of glaring omissions.
One example is given in  (6) below (where a single arrow introduces the draft translation and a double arrow the final translation.)
(6)
... Canadian consumption of milk fat and milk proteins... is relatively similar to that of  the U.S. ...
--> 	... la consommation canadienne est comparable à celle de...
=> ... la consommation individuelle canadienne de matière grasse et de protéines du 			 lait est comparable à celle...
In many other cases, however, the problem is not so much due to an oversight on the part of  the translator as to the verbosity of the source text.
A notable characteristic of the English version  of the Dairy text is the preponderance of lengthy nominal compounds; and in many of these, the modifiers that precede the head noun are either superfluous or can easily be inferred from the context, and so are not essential to the meaning of the phrase.
In such cases, the translator may  decide to omit that part of the complex noun phrase, producing a target text that is both lighter and clearer.
One simple example is given in (7) below.
The TL term for "industrial milk" is "lait de  transformation", which by definition is raw milk that is going to be processed into cheese, yogurt, etc.;
the inclusion of the adjective "raw" is therefore redundant in (7).
TransCheck, of course, has  no way of knowing this; and finding an occurrence of "raw milk" that is not aligned with "lait cru", it signals a potential term inconsistency - mistakenly, it turns out.
(7)
... for increased shares of industrial raw milk supplies
=>  	... accroître leur part du marché de l'approvisionnement en lait de transformation...
This raises an important question:
How do we know which of the non-correspondences  flagged by TransCheck in the preliminary translations correspond to real terminological inconsistencies and which correspond to "false positives" that arise because of a deficiency in our approach?
Initially, we had hoped to be able to answer this question by comparing the flagged  segments with the terminology of the final translations;
but, as we have already pointed out, the  preliminary translations did not undergo systematic revision, but only a process of quality assurance that aims to correct the most flagrant errors.
The reviser who performed the quality  assurance was quite candid on this point:
she admitted that the final translations might still contain  certain inconsistencies;
unfortunately, she did not have the time or tools that would have allowed  her to do a more thorough job.
Nevertheless, on the basis of our detailed analyses of these translations, there are certain  inferences about TransCheck's performance which can be drawn from the data in Table 5.
For  example, it seems quite evident that nearly all of the non-correspondences tabulated under "Head only" and "Pron." are attributable to false positives, or system noise.
Virtually none of these were  corrected in the final French translations.
Together, the two categories account for nearly 30% of  all the segments flagged by TransCheck; and if we add to these the cases of coordinated terms tabulated under "Other", they can safely be said to account for about one case of non- correspondence in three.
On the other hand, a much larger proportion of the non-correspondences  tabulated under "Alt. TT" and "ST not trans." were corrected by the reviser, presumably because  they represented true terminological inconsistencies.
Together, these last two categories account  for between 63-73% of all the potential errors flagged, or approximately two cases out of three.
Now notice that there would appear to be a rather fundamental difference between the cases of non- correspondence in these two large groupings of our taxonomy.
Those non-correspondences in the  former group are all concerned with variations to the form of the designated term. This is true of  the simplification of a complex term by reducing it to its head, or by combining it with another term under coordination, and (less obviously) by replacing with a pronoun or other anaphor.
In contrast,  those potential inconsistencies that the system flags due to the omission of a term, or its replacement by a paraphrase or an alternative term concern more than just the superficial form of the term;
they are conditioned by its redundancy in context, or by the synonymy of the term with  a proposed paraphrase or alternative - questions that have more to do with the meaning of the term.
We shall return to this distinction in the concluding discussion below.
4.
Conclusion
In (Bédard 1986, especially Chapter 2), the author criticizes what he calls "l'obsession des  équivalents", or the tendancy to mechanically reproduce in the target text the equivalents of all the terms found in the source.
This, he argues convincingly, invariably results in inferior translations.
The translator's responsibility is not to the literal wording of the source text but to its intended  meaning, and to properly render this, s/he should not hesitate to make use of his or her professional judgement.
Insofar as the technical terminology of the text is concerned, the translator must not  feel bound to reproduce "les équivalences directes ou toutes faites".
In order to create a target text  that is both intelligible and natural in the target language, s/he may on occasion be required to modify or abridge certain terms, omit other terms that appear in the source text, and even coin new terms.
"Any object or situation can always be described in more than one way, and technical  writing is no exception to this general rule.
The terms employed by the writer, no matter  how technical or exact, are not necessarily the only ones he or she could have used.
Corollary:
for the same reasons, it follows that the translator is not forced to employ direct  translational equivalents in order to get his message across."
(Bédard 1986, p.31;
my translation)
Bédard's arguments would seem to run directly counter to the automated approach to term  consistency checking that has been presented here;
for our TransCheck implementation certainly  is based on a literal 1:1 transposition of terms in the source and target texts - at least for those terms specified by the reviser in the term equivalence glossary.
It is important to recall, however, that  TransCheck is a translation support tool, not a machine translation system;
its function is not to  impose terms on the reviser, but only to assist him or her in validating a preliminary translation.
As  such, it is the reviser, and not the system, who always has the last word.
S/he will have to decide  whether to ignore or to accept each potential term inconsistency flagged by the system, and in the latter case, how to modify the target term.
On the other hand, the approach to term consistency  checking embodied by TransCheck does assume that, for certain types of texts at least, a considerable degree of terminological uniformity is desirable.
If this were not the case, i.e. if  eventual users found themselves consistently ignoring the majority of potential errors flagged by the system, it would not take long for them to abandon the system.
In the preceding Results section, we noted that for the 100 terms selected from our four  sample texts, TransCheck generated an overall non-correspondence rate of between 16% and 28% (depending on whether the Sniper text is included in the calculation.)
We also observed that, while  our methodology did not allow us to determine precisely what proportion of these non- correspondences represented true inconsistencies, approximately one third of the segments flagged by the system could be assumed to be false positives, i.e. noise that arises because of TransCheck's failure to recognize certain formal variations to target terms.
To these must be added an  indeterminate number of omissions and alternative terms which the reviser may decide, for various reasons, not to correct.
In short, if this prototype version of TransCheck were to be placed in the  hands of users as is, it would mean that in at least one case out of three, the system would be asking the user to verify potential inconsistencies that s/he would not want to modify or correct.
Is this a  noise level that users would be prepared to tolerate?
It is difficult to say;
in part, the answer depends  on how much time and embarrassment the system would be able save users on the other potential errors it brought to their attention.
But one thing is certain:
it would definitely facilitate the  acceptance of automated term checking if we could somehow reduce the incidence of noise that the system currently generates.
This may in fact be possible, particularly for those cases that are  due to variations in a term's superficial form.
It is quite clear what has to be done here:
the  conditions of complete formal identity in TransCheck's definition of terminological consistency have to be relaxed so as to allow the system to recognize at least some of these formal variants as valid instances of the fully specified target term.
Whether we will be able to do so without  inadvertently exempting any of the true terminological inconsistencies the system currently flags remains to be seen.
However, it would be a much more difficult task to conceive and implement  strategies that would allow the system to distinguish between acceptable and unacceptable cases in which a target term has been omitted, or replaced by an alternative term or a paraphrase.
Indeed,  one could ask whether it is not somewhat abusive to consider these as instances of terminological consistency, even when they happen to yield acceptable translations.
Be that as it may, our attitude  in these cases is that they are best left to the human reviser, so that s/he can examine each in turn and make the appropriate decision in each case.
Our goal at the outset of this study was to determine whether or not it is feasible to verify the  terminological consistency of draft translations with a tool like TransCheck, using essentially the same approach that the system employs to detect problems of source language interference.
We  were aware, of course, that in implementing a naive definition of terminological inconsistency and applying it to real texts, we were certain to encounter examples where the form of the target term would not correspond exactly to that designated in the term equivalence glossary, but which would nevertheless be acceptable.
Some of the recent work on automatic term extraction details the  possible variations that monolingual terms may undergo; see in particular (Daille 1994).
The  question was not whether such phenomena exist, but rather what types of variation to terminological units actually occur in authentic translations, and what is their relative frequency.
Hopefully, this study has provided some data that helps begin to answer this question, allowing us  to identify a subset of problems that may be amenable to short-term solutions.
There are (at least) two weaknesses in our approach to term consistency checking that have  not as yet been mentioned.
The first concerns the implicit directionality of the algorithm; i.e. the  fact that TransCheck begins its search for a specified pair of terms from a detected occurrence of the source term and only then verifies the aligned target segment for the presence of the target term.
But, of course, source terms are also subject to the same variations in form as target terms:
they too  can be ellipted, omitted, pronominalized, mis-spelled, etc.
And in each such case, TransCheck's  literal pattern matching strategy will cause the system to pass over the aligned segment without bothering to verify the target term, thereby reducing the system's coverage.
One possible solution  to this problem which immediately comes to mind would be to convert the entries in the term equivalence glossary into bi-directional queries; i.e. to take each "e-term1 = f-term1" statement and have the system search the bi-text for any aligned pair in which the specified f-term appears without the corresponding e-term.
There are a number of difficulties with this strategy, however.
One has  to do with the fact that a translation is often more explicit than its source text.
We mentioned in  Note 8, for example, that the term "tireur d'élite" actually occurs more frequently in the target text than "sniper" does in the source.
This suggests that reverse queries would result in even higher  noise levels than the original queries.
More fundamentally, however, these reverse queries may not  necessarily correspond to the terminological equivalences that the reviser originally wanted to have verified.
In stipulating that a given "e-term1" must be translated as "f-term1", the reviser may  not have meant to exclude the possibility that other e-term's could also have f-term1 as their target language equivalent.
But that is just what the reverse query "f-term1 BUT NOT e-term1" would  flag.
Another general problem with our approach to term checking is the extent to which it relies  on the reviser to furnish the system with an explicit statement of all the term equivalences to be verified.
No doubt, situations will often arise where the reviser simply does not have the time to do  this, but would still like to have the translation validated for terminological consistency before sending it out to the client.
This is possible for errors of SL interference, because TransCheck  incorporates a pre-existing database of attested translation interdictions.
Perhaps the same could be  done for term consistency checking when the text to be validated clearly belongs to a well-defined domain for which a reliable term glossary already exists.
Another interesting possibility has recently been raised in (Dagan and Church 1994).
Their  Termight system extracts candidate terms in a source text (like our F-TERM), and then goes on to automatically identify a likely target equivalent in the translation, based on a word alignment program that they have developed.
Termight could be adapted to term consistency checking, the  authors suggest, by having the system draw the user's attention to pairs of terms for which the system finds more than one target equivalent for any given source term.
Notice that these will  include all the formal variants that currently cause TransCheck to flag false positives.
What is  more, the user would not want to overlook those cases in which all the occurrences of a given source term have been consistently translated by the same but incorrect target term;
we did, in fact,  encounter several such examples in the PIBD text.
While relying on the reviser to furnish the term  equivalence glossary may have its drawbacks, it does ensure not only the consistency of the terminology being verified, but also its correctness.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
A number of colleagues in the CITI's Machine-aided Translation group were kind enough to  provide me with assistance, both technical and linguistic, during the course of this study: Pierre Isabelle, the group's director, Michel Simard, Marie-Louise Hannan, François Perrault, and Jean- Marc Jutras.
I gratefully acknowledge their support, though of course none is responsible for any  errors of detail or judgment contained herein.
Special thanks also go to the anonymous reviser who  helped me obtain the translations that were analysed, and who was patient enough to answer my many questions.
REFERENCES
AHMAD, Khurshid et al. (1994) : "What is a term? The semi-automatic extraction of terms from  text," M. Snell-Horby & F. Pochhacker (eds.), Translation Studies: An Interdiscipline, Selected Proceedings of the Vienna Conference, pp.9-12.
BéDARD, Claude (1986) : La traduction technique : principes et pratique, Montréal, Linguatech.
DAILLE, Béatrice (1994) : Approche Mixte pour l'extraction de terminologie : statistique lexicale  et filtres linguistique, Doctoral thesis in computer science, Université Paris VII.
DAGAN, Ido and Ken CHURCH (1994) : "Termight: Identifying and Translating Technical  Terminology," in the Proceedings of EACL.
HANNAN, Marie-Louise (1995) : The Use of Semantic Classes for Automatic Terminology  Extraction, Master's thesis in linguistics, Université de Montréal.
HARRIS, Brian (1988) : "Bi-text: A New Concept in Translation Theory," in Language Monthly,  no. 54.
ISABELLE, Pierre et al.(1993) : "Translation Analysis and Translation Automation," in the  Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Machine Translation (TMI-93), Kyoto, pp.201-217.
JUSTESON, John and Slava KATZ (1993) : "Technical Terminology: some linguistic properties  and an algorithm for identification in text," Technical Report #RC 18906 (82591), IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York, 13 p.
MACKLOVITCH, Elliott (1994) : "Using Bi-textual Alignment for Translation Validation: the  TransCheck System," in the Proceedings of the First Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas (AMTA-94), Columbia, Maryland, pp. 157-168.
SIMARD, Michel, G. FOSTER et P. ISABELLE (1992) : "Using Cognates to Align Sentences in  Parallel Corpora," in the Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Machine Translation (TMI-92), Montréal, pp.67-81.
TransCheck : a screen dump
Automatic Restoration of Accents in French Text
Michel Simard
simard@citi. doc. ca
Industry Canada Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI) 1575 Chomedey Blvd. Laval, Quebec Canada H7V 2X2
1
Introduction
The research presented in this report is part of the Robustness Project conducted by the Computer- Aided Translation (CAT) team at CITI.
This project is intended to develop methods and tools for the  "robust" processing of natural languages:
many natural-language processing (NLP) systems either  refuse to process texts that contain errors or elements that are foreign to their particular knowledge base, or behave unpredictably under such circumstances.
In contrast, a "robust" system will behave  in a predictable and useful manner.
Unaccented French texts (i.e., texts without diacritics) are a typical and particularly common  example of problems faced by NLP systems.
Such problems are most often encountered in an  E-mail context. Two factors account for this:
First, the computer field has long suffered from a lack  of sufficiently widespread standards for encoding accented characters, which has resulted in a plethora of problems in the electronic transfer and processing of French texts.
Moreover, it is not  uncommon for one of the software links in an E-mail distribution chain to deliberately remove accents in order to avoid subsequent problems.
Secondly, keying in accented characters is still a  cumbersome activity, at times requiring manual acrobatics.
This is a matter of both standards and  ergonomics.
As a result, a large number of French-speaking users systematically avoid using  accented characters, at least when writing E-mail.
If this situation remains tolerable in practice, it is essentially because it is extremely rare that the  absence of accents renders a French text incomprehensible to the human reader.
From a linguistic  point of view, the lack of accents in French simply increases the relative degree of ambiguity inherent in the language.
At worst, it slows down reading and proves awkward, much as a text  written entirely in capital letters might do.
The fact remains, however, that while unaccented French text may be tolerated under certain  circumstances, it is not acceptable in common usage, especially in the case of printed documents.
Furthermore, unaccented texts pose serious problems for automatic processing.
Whether for  purposes of documentary research, spelling, grammar or style checkers, machine translation, natural-language interface, or any other form of language processing, accents are generally required in French texts-hence the interest in methods of automatic accent restoration.
An examination of the problem reveals that the vast majority (approximately 85%) of the words in  French texts take no accents, and that the correct form of more than half of the remaining words can be deduced deterministically on the basis of the unaccented form.
Consequently, with the use  of a good dictionary, accents can be restored to an unaccented text with a success rate of nearly 95% (i.e., an error in accentuation will occur in approximately every 20 words).
All evidence suggests that much higher results can be attained through the use of moderately  sophisticated language models, which will be able to deal with ambiguities resulting from missing accents, on the basis of linguistic considerations.
More specifically, it would seem that language  models termed probabilistic are particularly well adapted to this sort of task, as they provide a quantitative criterion for resolving ambiguity.
When the system encounters an unaccented form that  could correspond to various valid word forms (that may or may not take accents), it chooses the most probable one on the basis of the immediate context and a set of events observed previously (the training corpus).
Note, however, that this idea is not entirely original.
El-Bèze et al. [3] describe an accent-restoration  technique that draws upon the same concepts, while Yarowsky has obtained comparable results [6] by combining different criteria for statistical disambiguation within a unifying framework (decision lists).
2
Automatic Accent Restoration
We have developed an automatic accent restoration program called Reacc. It is based on a  stochastic language model.
Reacc will accept as input a string of characters that represents  unaccented French text.
If the input string contains accents, the accents can, of course, be stripped  away.
Since each accented character can correspond to only one unaccented character, this  process is entirely deterministic.
Another option is to retain the accents, on the assumption that they  are correct.
In either case, the output expected from Reacc is a string of characters that differs from  the input string solely in terms of accents.
The expected output is therefore the same French text,  the only difference being that the words are properly accented.
Reacc performs three successive operations: segmentation, hypothesis generation and  disambiguation.
The unit on which the program operates is the word.
Therefore, the segmentation process consists  in taking the input string and locating word boundaries, including punctuation marks, numbers and number/letter combinations.
Segmentation relies almost exclusively on language-independant  data, i.e. a set of rules encoding general knowledge about the structure of electronic texts.

One  exception to this is a list of French abbreviations and current acronyms, which is used to determine whether a period following a string of alphabetic characters (i.e., a word) belongs to the string itself or serves to end a sentence.
Also, a list of the most prevalent constructions involving the hyphen  and apostrophe in French is needed to determine whether or not these symbols act as word boundaries-for instance, compare l'école (in which case the apostrophe replaces an elided vowel in the article la and serves to link it with the noun that follows) with aujourd'hui (a single word with a compound origin), and passe-montagne (a compound noun) with pensez-vous (an interrogative inversion of pronoun and verb).
The next step, hypothesis generation, consists in producing a list of all accentuation possibilities for  each word identified in the segmentation process.
For example, if the unit cote has been isolated,  the system would have to generate cote, coté, côte, and côté.
Note that nothing precludes the  generation of nonexistent words such as côtè and cötê.
In practice, though, it is important to limit  the number of hypotheses as much as possible so as to reduce the possibility of an undue number of combinations.
The system thus draws upon a list of all valid French forms, including inflections,  indexed according to their unaccented counterparts.
In theory, such a list could contain several  hundreds of thousands of distinct word forms.
In practice, though, the number can be reduced by  half, by excluding the forms that take no accents and for which there are no valid accented variants.
The number can be further reduced by excluding the lower-frequency forms; however, this will  eventually result in a decline in performance.
Once all the hypotheses have been generated, the most probable ones must be selected.
This step  is called disambiguation.
A stochastic language model, called a hidden Markov model (HMM) is  used (by means of Foster's Im package [4]) to carry out the disambiguation process,
According to  this model, a text is seen as the result of two distinct stochastic processes.
The first generates a  series of symbols which, in our model, correspond to morpho-syntactic tags (e.g., CommonNoun- masculine-singular; Verb-indicative-present-3rdPerson-plural).
In an N-class HMM, the  production of a symbol depends exclusively on the preceding N-1 symbols.
The sequence of tags  produced constitutes a hidden phenomenon (from which the name of the model is derived).
Then  for each tag in the sequence, the second process generates another symbol-in this instance, one that corresponds to a word that exists in the language.
This second sequence is the observable  result.
The parameters of our model are as follows:
·	P(ti | hi-1):
The probability of observing tag ti, given the preceding N-1 tags (hi-1 designates the  series of N-1 tags ending at position i-1).
·	P(fi | ti):
The probability of observing form fi, given the underlying tag ti.
The exact value of these parameters is, of course, unknown, but in practice, an estimate can be  made on the basis of frequencies observed in a training corpus.
The corpus consists of a series of  sentences, each word of which is assigned an appropriate tag (i.e., a corpus within which the nature of the "hidden" phenomenon is "revealed").
The corpus must be large enough to ensure a reliable  estimate of the value of each parameter.
If no such tagged corpus is available, the training operation  can be carried out on an untagged text, and the parameters subsequently refined by reestimation.
Another option is to combine the two methods-i. e., to obtain an initial estimate of the parameters  on the basis of a small tagged corpus and then proceed with a reestimation on the basis of a larger, untagged corpus.
Given these parameters, the overall probability of a sequence of words s = s1s2... sn can be  evaluated.
If T is the set of all possible n-length tagged sequences, then:
Although the direct calculation of this equation requires a number of operations exponential in n,  there is an algorithm that will produce the same results in polynomial time (see [5]).
Our disambiguation strategy consists in choosing a series of hypotheses that produce the version  of the text with the highest overall probability.
In other words, if a given text segment and its  accentuation hypotheses are represented as a directed acyclic graph (DAG), the problem can be expressed as the search, from the beginning to the end of the text segment, for the pathway with the highest probability (figure 1).
Figure 1:
Representation of a text segment and possible accentuation hypotheses in  the form of a directed acyclic graph
There are, of course, computational complexity problems involved in the calculation of this pathway,  as the number of pathways to be explored generally increases exponentially with the length of the text segment.
In practice, however, it is possible to segment the graph into independent islets-i. e.,  into sections for which the optimal pathway is independent from the rest of the graph.
Typically,  sentences are considered to be independent of one another.
The text can thus be segmented into  sentences and the optimal pathway for each can be calculated.
If the number of possibilities within  a given sentence remains problematic, there are ways of resegmenting the sentence, at the expense of a slight loss in accuracy.
In our way of proceeding, each sentence is segmented such  that the number of pathways to be explored within a given segment does not exceed a certain threshold (referred to as parameter S).
The segmentation points are chosen by means of a simple  heuristic that tends to minimize segment interdependence.
As much as possible, each segment  must end with a series of non-ambiguous words-i. e., words for which there is only one  accentuation hypothesis and one lexical analysis.
The segments are processed successively from  left to right, and each is prefixed with the last words of the optimal pathway of the preceding segment.
Once the disambiguation process has been completed, the results must be produced.
Though this  operation does merit attention, it is actually very simple.
One of our primary concerns is to preserve  the appearance of the input text once it reaches the output stage.
Therefore, we must start with  each word form that appears on the optimal pathway represented on the graph, find the corresponding ocurrence in the input string, and transpose the accentuation of the new form onto the original form without modifying its appearance in any other way.
3
Assessment
In order to assess the performance of an accent-restoration method, one simply has to select a  French text or set of texts that are correctly accented, automatically strip them of accents, feed them into the accent-restoration program, and then compare the results with the original text.
One of the properties of Reacc that we wanted to evaluate was its ability to operate on various types  of texts.
In order to do so, the ideal would have been to run the program on a "balanced" corpus,  along the lines of the Brown corpus.
However, since no such resource was available in French, we  had to construct our own corpus from the documents at our disposal.
The training corpus was therefore composed of excerpts from accented French texts drawn from  seven different sources, represented in more or less equal proportions.
The texts include military  documents, legal texts, United Nations publications, literary texts, press reviews, computer manuals, and excerpts from Hansard (the official record of proceedings in Canada's House of Commons).
The corpus totals 57,966 words (a figure produced by the UNIX wc utility).
Certain  adjustments were made to the texts in order to correct a few errors in accentuation that were found during testing.
For the purposes of our tests, the Reacc hypothesis generator used a list of word forms taken from  the Dictionnaire micro-informatisé du français (DMF), a morpho-syntactic dictionary that contains nearly 380,000 distinct word forms [1].
Such a large number of terms is probably unnecessary.
In  fact, as fully satisfactory results were obtained during preliminary trials using a dictionary that recognized some 50,000 word forms only.
Where the language model was concerned, after various trials, we opted for an approach that  placed a greater priority on the quality rather than the quantity of data.
We used a bi-class HMM  based on a set of approximately 350 morpho-syntactic tags.
The parameters of the model were first  initialized by means of the DMF-in other words, the P(fi | ti) were restricted according to the contents of the values sanctioned by the dictionary.
We then went on to an initial training phase,  using a 60,000-word manually tagged corpus taken from the Canadian Hansard [2].
Lastly, a much  larger untagged corpus was used, consisting of over 3 million words, in order to reestimate the model's parameters.
Aside from the hypothesis generator and the language model used, a number of other parameters  affect Reacc's performance on the level of both the quality of the results obtained and running time.
Nevertheless, the most important factor is the S parameter, which limits the size of the segments  that Reacc processes.
Table 1 provides the results obtained for different S values (an exponential  increase in this factor generally translates into a linear increase in the length of the segments processed).
The tests were carried out on a Sun SPARCstation 10.
Maximum no. of      hypotheses per     segment (S)
Running time      (seconds)
Total number of      errors (words)
Average distance      between errors     (words)
Table 1:
Results of Accent-Restoration Trials
A cursory look at the results reveals that there is much to be gained by allowing the system to work  on longer segments.
However, beyond a certain limit, the quality of the results tends to level off,  while the running time increases radically.
Depending on the type of application and the resources  available, it would seem that acceptable results can be obtained when S is set at around 16 or 32.
It is interesting to look at where Reacc goes wrong.
Table 2 provides a rough classification of  accent-restoration errors made by Reacc on our training corpus when S was set at 16.
The category  in which the greatest number of accentuation errors were made includes a rather liberal grouping of errors that have a common feature: they are the result of an incorrect choice pertaining to an acute accent on an e in the final syllable of a word (e.g., aime as opposed to aimé).
The next group  of errors are those that stem from inadequacies in the hypothesis generator-i. e., cases in which  the generator simply does not know the correct accented form.
In most cases (nearly half), proper  nouns are involved, but, especially in more technical texts, there are also many abbreviations, non- French words, and neologisms (e.g., réaménagement, séropositivité).
The next category concerns  a unique word pair: the preposition à, and a, the third person singular form of the verb avoir.
Type of error
Number
Percentage
Ambiguities: -e vs. -é
Unknown word forms
Ambiguity: a vs. à
Other
Total
Table 2:
Classification of Accent Restoration Errors     (S = 16)
4
Conclusions
This report has presented a method of automatic accent restoration for French texts, based on a  hidden Markov language model.
This method was actually implemented by means of the Reacc  software.
Our experiments have demonstrated that this program produces texts that are altogether  acceptable within a totally reasonable time frame:
we can expect an error to occur every 130 words  on average, and the processing of 20,000 words per minute.
There is, of course, always room for improvement.
In particular, the use of a more refined language  model (e.g., a tri-class HMM) could only enhance the quality of the disambiguation process.
Moreover, given the large proportion of accentuation errors caused by words not recognized by the  dictionary, it would be interesting to examine means of dealing with such "unknown" words.
In this  regard, we have already carried out certain preliminary experiments which have produced especially interesting results.
In particular, we have focused on ways of "guessing" the accentuation  of an unknown word on the basis of a stochastic model of the accentuation of known words.
There  is nevertheless a great deal of work to be done in this area.
The methods we described here open the door to other, similar applications.
For example, we can  see how generalizations could be drawn from accent-restoration methods in order to deal with other types of information loss-especially texts in which all accented characters have been replaced by a single character (most often a question mark), or texts in which the eighth bit of each character has been lost.
For instance, in such texts, é comes out as an i and è as an h.
In such cases, a  problem of determining word boundaries compounds that of lexical ambiguity; word boundaries thus become a source of ambiguity as well.
Another interesting possibility is that of grafting a program such as Reacc onto a word processing  application so that the user can input a French text without worrying about accents, which would be inserted automatically as the text is being input.
This would thus mark a shift from accent restoration  to automatic accentuation.
This type of feature could significantly facilitate the inputting of French  texts, especially in light of the lack of uniformity and ergonomic soundness in the conventions for producing accents on computer keyboards.
A much more ambitious application that could derive from similar methods is computer-assisted  writing.
Instead of processing a text already input by the user, the computer would be concerned  with text yet to be formulated and would try to foresee what the user will type so as to avoid the need to manually input large portions of text.
All of these applications are currently being studied at CITI.
References
[1]
Bourbeau, Laurent, and François Pinard. 1987. Dictionnaire micro-informatisé du français  (DMF). Montreal: Progiciels Bourbeau Pinard inc.
[2]
Bourbeau, Laurent. 1994. Fabrication d'un corpus témoin bilingue étiqueté et annoté pour la  mise au point de techniques de parsage automatique probabiliste. Technical report submitted  by Progiciels Bourbeau Pinard to the Centre for Information Technology Innovation (CITI), Laval.
[3]
El-Bèze, Marc, Bernard Mérialdo, Bénédicte Rozeron and Anne-Marie Derouault. 1994.  " Accentuation automatique de textes par des méthodes probabilistes." In Technique et  sciences informatiques, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 797-815.
[4]
Foster, George F. 1995. Personal communication.
[5]
Rabiner, L. R., and B. H. Juang. 1986. " An Introduction to Hidden Markov Models." In IEEE  ASSP Magazine, January issue.
[6]
Yarowsky, David. 1994. " Decision Lists for Lexical Ambiguity Resolution: Application to Accent  Restoration in Spanish and French." In Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Meeting of the  Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL-94), pp. 88-95.
FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON

CHAPTER I

THE GUN CLUB
During the War of the Rebellion, a new and influential club was established in the city of Baltimore in the State of Maryland.
It is well known with what energy the taste for military matters became developed among that nation of ship-owners, shopkeepers, and mechanics.
Simple tradesmen jumped their counters to become extemporized captains, colonels, and generals, without having ever passed the School of Instruction at West Point;
nevertheless;
they quickly rivaled their compeers of the old continent, and, like them, carried off victories by dint of lavish expenditure in ammunition, money, and men.
But the point in which the Americans singularly distanced the Europeans was in the science of gunnery.
Not, indeed, that their weapons retained a higher degree of perfection than theirs, but that they exhibited unheard-of dimensions, and consequently attained hitherto unheard-of ranges.
In point of grazing, plunging, oblique, or enfilading, or point-blank firing, the English, French, and Prussians have nothing to learn;
but their cannon, howitzers, and mortars are mere pocket-pistols compared with the formidable engines of the American artillery.
This fact need surprise no one.
The Yankees, the first mechanicians in the world, are engineers-- just as the Italians are musicians and the Germans metaphysicians-- by right of birth.
Nothing is more natural, therefore, than to perceive them applying their audacious ingenuity to the science of gunnery.

Witness the marvels of Parrott, Dahlgren, and Rodman.
The Armstrong, Palliser, and Beaulieu guns were compelled to bow before their transatlantic rivals.

Now when an American has an idea, he directly seeks a second American to share it.
If there be three, they elect a president and two secretaries.
Given four, they name a keeper of records, and the office is ready for work;
five, they convene a general meeting, and the club is fully constituted.
So things were managed in Baltimore.
The inventor of a new cannon associated himself with the caster and the borer.
Thus was formed the nucleus of the "Gun Club."
In a single month after its formation it numbered 1,833 effective members and 30,565 corresponding members.
One condition was imposed as a _sine qua non_ upon every candidate for admission into the association, and that was the condition of having designed, or (more or less) perfected a cannon; or, in default of a cannon, at least a firearm of some description.
It may, however, be mentioned that mere inventors of revolvers, fire-shooting carbines, and similar small arms, met with little consideration.
Artillerists always commanded the chief place of favor.
The estimation in which these gentlemen were held, according to one of the most scientific exponents of the Gun Club, was "proportional to the masses of their guns, and in the direct ratio of the square of the distances attained by their projectiles."

The Gun Club once founded, it is easy to conceive the result of the inventive genius of the Americans.
Their military weapons attained colossal proportions, and their projectiles, exceeding the prescribed limits, unfortunately occasionally cut in two some unoffending pedestrians.
These inventions, in fact, left far in the rear the timid instruments of European artillery.

It is but fair to add that these Yankees, brave as they have ever proved themselves to be, did not confine themselves to theories and formulae, but that they paid heavily, _in propria persona_, for their inventions.
Among them were to be counted officers of all ranks, from lieutenants to generals; military men of every age, from those who were just making their _debut_ in the profession of arms up to those who had grown old in the gun-carriage.
Many had found their rest on the field of battle whose names figured in the "Book of Honor" of the Gun Club; and of those who made good their return the greater proportion bore the marks of their indisputable valor.
Crutches, wooden legs, artificial arms, steel hooks, caoutchouc jaws, silver craniums, platinum noses, were all to be found in the collection; and it was calculated by the great statistician Pitcairn that throughout the Gun Club there was not quite one arm between four persons and two legs between six.
Nevertheless, these valiant artillerists took no particular account of these little facts, and felt justly proud when the despatches of a battle returned the number of victims at ten-fold the quantity of projectiles expended.
One day, however-- sad and melancholy day! -- peace was signed between the survivors of the war; the thunder of the guns gradually ceased, the mortars were silent, the howitzers were muzzled for an indefinite period, the cannon, with muzzles depressed, were returned into the arsenal, the shot were repiled, all bloody reminiscences were effaced; the cotton-plants grew luxuriantly in the well-manured fields, all mourning garments were laid aside, together with grief; and the Gun Club was relegated to profound inactivity.
Some few of the more advanced and inveterate theorists set themselves again to work upon calculations regarding the laws of projectiles.
They reverted invariably to gigantic shells and howitzers of unparalleled caliber.
Still in default of practical experience what was the value of mere theories?
Consequently, the clubrooms became deserted, the servants dozed in the antechambers, the newspapers grew mouldy on the tables, sounds of snoring came from dark corners, and the members of the Gun Club, erstwhile so noisy in their seances, were reduced to silence by this disastrous peace and gave themselves up wholly to dreams of a Platonic kind of artillery.
"This is horrible!" said Tom Hunter one evening, while rapidly carbonizing his wooden legs in the fireplace of the smoking-room;
"nothing to do!
nothing to look forward to!
what a loathsome existence!
When again shall the guns arouse us in the morning with their delightful reports?"
"Those days are gone by," said jolly Bilsby, trying to extend his missing arms.
" It was delightful once upon a time!
One invented a gun, and hardly was it cast, when one hastened to try it in the face of the enemy!
Then one returned to camp with a word of encouragement from Sherman or a friendly shake of the hand from McClellan.
But now the generals are gone back to their counters; and in place of projectiles, they despatch bales of cotton.
By Jove, the future of gunnery in America is lost!"

"Ay! and no war in prospect!" continued the famous James T. Maston, scratching with his steel hook his gutta-percha cranium.
" Not a cloud on the horizon! and that too at such a critical period in the progress of the science of artillery!
Yes, gentlemen!
I who address you have myself this very morning perfected a model (plan, section, elevation, etc.) of a mortar destined to change all the conditions of warfare!"
"No! is it possible?" replied Tom Hunter, his thoughts reverting involuntarily to a former invention of the Hon. J. T. Maston, by which, at its first trial, he had succeeded in killing three hundred and thirty-seven people.
"Fact!" replied he.
" Still, what is the use of so many studies worked out, so many difficulties vanquished?
It's mere waste of time!
The New World seems to have made up its mind to live in peace; and our bellicose _Tribune_ predicts some approaching catastrophes arising out of this scandalous increase of population."
"Nevertheless," replied Colonel Blomsberry, "they are always struggling in Europe to maintain the principle of nationalities."
"Well?"
"Well, there might be some field for enterprise down there; and if they would accept our services----"
"What are you dreaming of?" screamed Bilsby;
"work at gunnery for the benefit of foreigners?"
"That would be better than doing nothing here," returned the colonel.
"Quite so," said J. T. Matson; "but still we need not dream of that expedient."
"And why not?" demanded the colonel.
"Because their ideas of progress in the Old World are contrary to our American habits of thought.
Those fellows believe that one can't become a general without having served first as an ensign; which is as much as to say that one can't point a gun without having first cast it oneself!"

"Ridiculous!" replied Tom Hunter, whittling with his bowie-knife the arms of his easy chair; "but if that be the case there, all that is left for us is to plant tobacco and distill whale-oil."
"What!" roared J. T. Maston, "shall we not employ these remaining years of our life in perfecting firearms?
Shall there never be a fresh opportunity of trying the ranges of projectiles?
Shall the air never again be lighted with the glare of our guns?
No international difficulty ever arise to enable us to declare war against some transatlantic power?
Shall not the French sink one of our steamers, or the English, in defiance of the rights of nations, hang a few of our countrymen?"
"No such luck," replied Colonel Blomsberry; "nothing of the kind is likely to happen; and even if it did, we should not profit by it.
American susceptibility is fast declining, and we are all going to the dogs."

"It is too true," replied J. T. Maston, with fresh violence;
"there are a thousand grounds for fighting, and yet we don't fight.
We save up our arms and legs for the benefit of nations who don't know what to do with them!
But stop-- without going out of one's way to find a cause for war-- did not North America once belong to the English?"
"Undoubtedly," replied Tom Hunter, stamping his crutch with fury.
"Well, then," replied J. T. Maston, "why should not England in her turn belong to the Americans?"
"It would be but just and fair," returned Colonel Blomsberry.
"Go and propose it to the President of the United States," cried J. T. Maston, "and see how he will receive you."
"Bah!" growled Bilsby between the four teeth which the war had left him;
"that will never do!"
"By Jove!" cried J. T. Maston, "he mustn't count on my vote at the next election!"
"Nor on ours," replied unanimously all the bellicose invalids.
"Meanwhile," replied J. T. Maston, "allow me to say that, if I cannot get an opportunity to try my new mortars on a real field of battle, I shall say good-by to the members of the Gun Club, and go and bury myself in the prairies of Arkansas!"
"In that case we will accompany you," cried the others.
Matters were in this unfortunate condition, and the club was threatened with approaching dissolution, when an unexpected circumstance occurred to prevent so deplorable a catastrophe.
On the morrow after this conversation every member of the association received a sealed circular couched in the following terms:
BALTIMORE, October 3.
The president of the Gun Club has the honor to inform his colleagues that, at the meeting of the 5th instant, he will bring before them a communication of an extremely interesting nature.
He requests, therefore, that they will make it convenient to attend in accordance with the present invitation.
Very cordially,                                      IMPEY BARBICANE, P.G.C.
CHAPTER II

PRESIDENT BARBICANE'S COMMUNICATION
On the 5th of October, at eight p.m., a dense crowd pressed toward the saloons of the Gun Club at No. 21 Union Square.
All the members of the association resident in Baltimore attended the invitation of their president.
As regards the corresponding members, notices were delivered by hundreds throughout the streets of the city, and, large as was the great hall, it was quite inadequate to accommodate the crowd of _savants_.
They overflowed into the adjoining rooms, down the narrow passages, into the outer courtyards.
There they ran against the vulgar herd who pressed up to the doors, each struggling to reach the front ranks, all eager to learn the nature of the important communication of President Barbicane; all pushing, squeezing, crushing with that perfect freedom of action which is so peculiar to the masses when educated in ideas of "self-government."
On that evening a stranger who might have chanced to be in Baltimore could not have gained admission for love or money into the great hall.
That was reserved exclusively for resident or corresponding members;
no one else could possibly have obtained a place; and the city magnates, municipal councilors, and "select men" were compelled to mingle with the mere townspeople in order to catch stray bits of news from the interior.
Nevertheless the vast hall presented a curious spectacle.
Its immense area was singularly adapted to the purpose.
Lofty pillars formed of cannon, superposed upon huge mortars as a base, supported the fine ironwork of the arches, a perfect piece of cast-iron lacework.
Trophies of blunderbuses, matchlocks, arquebuses, carbines, all kinds of firearms, ancient and modern, were picturesquely interlaced against the walls.
The gas lit up in full glare myriads of revolvers grouped in the form of lustres, while groups of pistols, and candelabra formed of muskets bound together, completed this magnificent display of brilliance.
Models of cannon, bronze castings, sights covered with dents, plates battered by the shots of the Gun Club, assortments of rammers and sponges, chaplets of shells, wreaths of projectiles, garlands of howitzers-- in short, all the apparatus of the artillerist, enchanted the eye by this wonderful arrangement and induced a kind of belief that their real purpose was ornamental rather than deadly.

At the further end of the saloon the president, assisted by four secretaries, occupied a large platform.
His chair, supported by a carved gun-carriage, was modeled upon the ponderous proportions of a 32-inch mortar.
It was pointed at an angle of ninety degrees, and suspended upon truncheons, so that the president could balance himself upon it as upon a rocking-chair, a very agreeable fact in the very hot weather.
Upon the table (a huge iron plate supported upon six carronades) stood an inkstand of exquisite elegance, made of a beautifully chased Spanish piece, and a sonnette, which, when required, could give forth a report equal to that of a revolver.
During violent debates this novel kind of bell scarcely sufficed to drown the clamor of these excitable artillerists.
In front of the table benches arranged in zigzag form, like the circumvallations of a retrenchment, formed a succession of bastions and curtains set apart for the use of the members of the club; and on this especial evening one might say, "All the world was on the ramparts."
The president was sufficiently well known, however, for all to be assured that he would not put his colleagues to discomfort without some very strong motive.
Impey Barbicane was a man of forty years of age, calm, cold, austere; of a singularly serious and self-contained demeanor, punctual as a chronometer, of imperturbable temper and immovable character; by no means chivalrous, yet adventurous withal, and always bringing practical ideas to bear upon the very rashest enterprises; an essentially New Englander, a Northern colonist, a descendant of the old anti-Stuart Roundheads, and the implacable enemy of the gentlemen of the South, those ancient cavaliers of the mother country.
In a word, he was a Yankee to the backbone.
Barbicane had made a large fortune as a timber merchant.
Being nominated director of artillery during the war, he proved himself fertile in invention.
Bold in his conceptions, he contributed powerfully to the progress of that arm and gave an immense impetus to experimental researches.
He was personage of the middle height, having, by a rare exception in the Gun Club, all his limbs complete.
His strongly marked features seemed drawn by square and rule; and if it be true that, in order to judge a man's character one must look at his profile, Barbicane, so examined, exhibited the most certain indications of energy, audacity, and _sang-froid_.
At this moment he was sitting in his armchair, silent, absorbed, lost in reflection, sheltered under his high-crowned hat-- a kind of black cylinder which always seems firmly screwed upon the head of an American.

Just when the deep-toned clock in the great hall struck eight, Barbicane, as if he had been set in motion by a spring, raised himself up.
A profound silence ensued, and the speaker, in a somewhat emphatic tone of voice, commenced as follows:
"My brave, colleagues, too long already a paralyzing peace has plunged the members of the Gun Club in deplorable inactivity.
After a period of years full of incidents we have been compelled to abandon our labors, and to stop short on the road of progress.
I do not hesitate to state, baldly, that any war which would recall us to arms would be welcome!"

(Tremendous applause!)
" But war, gentlemen, is impossible under existing circumstances; and, however we may desire it, many years may elapse before our cannon shall again thunder in the field of battle.
We must make up our minds, then, to seek in another train of ideas some field for the activity which we all pine for."
The meeting felt that the president was now approaching the critical point, and redoubled their attention accordingly.
"For some months past, my brave colleagues," continued Barbicane, "I have been asking myself whether, while confining ourselves to our own particular objects, we could not enter upon some grand experiment worthy of the nineteenth century; and whether the progress of artillery science would not enable us to carry it out to a successful issue.
I have been considering, working, calculating; and the result of my studies is the conviction that we are safe to succeed in an enterprise which to any other country would appear wholly impracticable.
This project, the result of long elaboration, is the object of my present communication.
It is worthy of yourselves, worthy of the antecedents of the Gun Club; and it cannot fail to make some noise in the world."

A thrill of excitement ran through the meeting.
Barbicane, having by a rapid movement firmly fixed his hat upon his head, calmly continued his harangue:
"There is no one among you, my brave colleagues, who has not seen the Moon, or, at least, heard speak of it.
Don't be surprised if I am about to discourse to you regarding the Queen of the Night.
It is perhaps reserved for us to become the Columbuses of this unknown world.
Only enter into my plans, and second me with all your power, and I will lead you to its conquest, and its name shall be added to those of the thirty-six states which compose this Great Union."
"Three cheers for the Moon!" roared the Gun Club, with one voice.
"The moon, gentlemen, has been carefully studied," continued Barbicane;
"her mass, density, and weight; her constitution, motions, distance, as well as her place in the solar system, have all been exactly determined.
Selenographic charts have been constructed with a perfection which equals, if it does not even surpass, that of our terrestrial maps.
Photography has given us proofs of the incomparable beauty of our satellite;
all is known regarding the moon which mathematical science, astronomy, geology, and optics can learn about her.
But up to the present moment no direct communication has been established with her."
A violent movement of interest and surprise here greeted this remark of the speaker.
"Permit me," he continued, "to recount to you briefly how certain ardent spirits, starting on imaginary journeys, have penetrated the secrets of our satellite.
In the seventeenth century a certain David Fabricius boasted of having seen with his own eyes the inhabitants of the moon.
In 1649 a Frenchman, one Jean Baudoin, published a `Journey performed from the Earth to the Moon by Domingo Gonzalez,' a Spanish adventurer.
At the same period Cyrano de Bergerac published that celebrated `Journeys in the Moon' which met with such success in France.
Somewhat later another Frenchman, named Fontenelle, wrote `The Plurality of Worlds,' a _chef-d'oeuvre_ of its time.

About 1835 a small treatise, translated from the New York _American_, related how Sir John Herschel, having been despatched to the Cape of Good Hope for the purpose of making there some astronomical calculations, had, by means of a telescope brought to perfection by means of internal lighting, reduced the apparent distance of the moon to eighty yards!
He then distinctly perceived caverns frequented by hippopotami, green mountains bordered by golden lace-work, sheep with horns of ivory, a white species of deer and inhabitants with membranous wings, like bats.
This _brochure_, the work of an American named Locke, had a great sale.

But, to bring this rapid sketch to a close, I will only add that a certain Hans Pfaal, of Rotterdam, launching himself in a balloon filled with a gas extracted from nitrogen, thirty-seven times lighter than hydrogen, reached the moon after a passage of nineteen hours.
This journey, like all previous ones, was purely imaginary; still, it was the work of a popular American author--
I mean Edgar Poe!"
"Cheers for Edgar Poe!" roared the assemblage, electrified by their president's words.
"I have now enumerated," said Barbicane, "the experiments which I call purely paper ones, and wholly insufficient to establish serious relations with the Queen of the Night.
Nevertheless, I am bound to add that some practical geniuses have attempted to establish actual communication with her.
Thus, a few days ago, a German geometrician proposed to send a scientific expedition to the steppes of Siberia.
There, on those vast plains, they were to describe enormous geometric figures, drawn in characters of reflecting luminosity, among which was the proposition regarding the `square of the hypothenuse,' commonly called the `Ass's Bridge' by the French.
`Every intelligent being,' said the geometrician, `must understand the scientific meaning of that figure.
The Selenites, do they exist, will respond by a similar figure; and, a communication being thus once established, it will be easy to form an alphabet which shall enable us to converse with the inhabitants of the moon.'
So spoke the German geometrician; but his project was never put into practice, and up to the present day there is no bond in existence between the Earth and her satellite.
It is reserved for the practical genius of Americans to establish a communication with the sidereal world.
The means of arriving thither are simple, easy, certain, infallible-- and that is the purpose of my present proposal."
A storm of acclamations greeted these words.
There was not a single person in the whole audience who was not overcome, carried away, lifted out of himself by the speaker's words!

Long-continued applause resounded from all sides.
As soon as the excitement had partially subsided, Barbicane resumed his speech in a somewhat graver voice.
"You know," said he, "what progress artillery science has made during the last few years, and what a degree of perfection firearms of every kind have reached.
Moreover, you are well aware that, in general terms, the resisting power of cannon and the expansive force of gunpowder are practically unlimited.
Well!
starting from this principle, I ask myself whether, supposing sufficient apparatus could be obtained constructed upon the conditions of ascertained resistance, it might not be possible to project a shot up to the moon?"
At these words a murmur of amazement escaped from a thousand panting chests;
then succeeded a moment of perfect silence, resembling that profound stillness which precedes the bursting of a thunderstorm.
In point of fact, a thunderstorm did peal forth, but it was the thunder of applause, or cries, and of uproar which made the very hall tremble.
The president attempted to speak, but could not.
It was fully ten minutes before he could make himself heard.
"Suffer me to finish," he calmly continued.
" I have looked at the question in all its bearings, I have resolutely attacked it, and by incontrovertible calculations I find that a projectile endowed with an initial velocity of 12,000 yards per second, and aimed at the moon, must necessarily reach it.
I have the honor, my brave colleagues, to propose a trial of this little experiment."
CHAPTER III

EFFECT OF THE PRESIDENT'S COMMUNICATION
It is impossible to describe the effect produced by the last words of the honorable president--
the cries, the shouts, the succession of roars, hurrahs, and all the varied vociferations which the American language is capable of supplying.
It was a scene of indescribable confusion and uproar.
They shouted, they clapped, they stamped on the floor of the hall.
All the weapons in the museum discharged at once could not have more violently set in motion the waves of sound.
One need not be surprised at this.
There are some cannoneers nearly as noisy as their own guns.
Barbicane remained calm in the midst of this enthusiastic clamor;
perhaps he was desirous of addressing a few more words to his colleagues, for by his gestures he demanded silence, and his powerful alarum was worn out by its violent reports.
No attention, however, was paid to his request.
He was presently torn from his seat and passed from the hands of his faithful colleagues into the arms of a no less excited crowd.
Nothing can astound an American.
It has often been asserted that the word "impossible" in not a French one.
People have evidently been deceived by the dictionary.
In America, all is easy, all is simple; and as for mechanical difficulties, they are overcome before they arise.
Between Barbicane's proposition and its realization no true Yankee would have allowed even the semblance of a difficulty to be possible.
A thing with them is no sooner said than done.
The triumphal progress of the president continued throughout the evening.
It was a regular torchlight procession.
Irish, Germans, French, Scotch, all the heterogeneous units which make up the population of Maryland shouted in their respective vernaculars; and the "vivas," "hurrahs," and "bravos" were intermingled in inexpressible enthusiasm.
Just at this crisis, as though she comprehended all this agitation regarding herself, the moon shone forth with serene splendor, eclipsing by her intense illumination all the surrounding lights.
The Yankees all turned their gaze toward her resplendent orb, kissed their hands, called her by all kinds of endearing names.

Between eight o'clock and midnight one optician in Jones'-Fall Street made his fortune by the sale of opera-glasses.

Midnight arrived, and the enthusiasm showed no signs of diminution.
It spread equally among all classes of citizens--
men of science, shopkeepers, merchants, porters, chair-men, as well as "greenhorns," were stirred in their innermost fibres.
A national enterprise was at stake.
The whole city, high and low, the quays bordering the Patapsco, the ships lying in the basins, disgorged a crowd drunk with joy, gin, and whisky.
Every one chattered, argued, discussed, disputed, applauded, from the gentleman lounging upon the barroom settee with his tumbler of sherry-cobbler before him down to the waterman who got drunk upon his "knock-me-down" in the dingy taverns of Fell Point.
About two A.M., however, the excitement began to subside.
President Barbicane reached his house, bruised, crushed, and squeezed almost to a mummy.
Hercules could not have resisted a similar outbreak of enthusiasm.
The crowd gradually deserted the squares and streets.
The four railways from Philadelphia and Washington, Harrisburg and Wheeling, which converge at Baltimore, whirled away the heterogeneous population to the four corners of the United States, and the city subsided into comparative tranquility.

On the following day, thanks to the telegraphic wires, five hundred newspapers and journals, daily, weekly, monthly, or bi-monthly, all took up the question.
They examined it under all its different aspects, physical, meteorological, economical, or moral, up to its bearings on politics or civilization.
They debated whether the moon was a finished world, or whether it was destined to undergo any further transformation.
Did it resemble the earth at the period when the latter was destitute as yet of an atmosphere?
What kind of spectacle would its hidden hemisphere present to our terrestrial spheroid?
Granting that the question at present was simply that of sending a projectile up to the moon, every one must see that that involved the commencement of a series of experiments.
All must hope that some day America would penetrate the deepest secrets of that mysterious orb; and some even seemed to fear lest its conquest should not sensibly derange the equilibrium of Europe.
The project once under discussion, not a single paragraph suggested a doubt of its realization.
All the papers, pamphlets, reports-- all the journals published by the scientific, literary, and religious societies enlarged upon its advantages; and the Society of Natural History of Boston, the Society of Science and Art of Albany, the Geographical and Statistical Society of New York, the Philosophical Society of Philadelphia, and the Smithsonian of Washington sent innumerable letters of congratulation to the Gun Club, together with offers of immediate assistance and money.

From that day forward Impey Barbicane became one of the greatest citizens of the United States, a kind of Washington of science. A single trait of feeling, taken from many others, will serve to show the point which this homage of a whole people to a single individual attained.
Some few days after this memorable meeting of the Gun Club, the manager of an English company announced, at the Baltimore theatre, the production of "Much ado about Nothing."
But the populace, seeing in that title an allusion damaging to Barbicane's project, broke into the auditorium, smashed the benches, and compelled the unlucky director to alter his playbill.
Being a sensible man, he bowed to the public will and replaced the offending comedy by "As you like it"; and for many weeks he realized fabulous profits.
CHAPTER IV

REPLY FROM THE OBSERVATORY OF CAMBRIDGE
Barbicane, however, lost not one moment amid all the enthusiasm of which he had become the object.
His first care was to reassemble his colleagues in the board-room of the Gun Club.
There, after some discussion, it was agreed to consult the astronomers regarding the astronomical part of the enterprise.
Their reply once ascertained, they could then discuss the mechanical means, and nothing should be wanting to ensure the success of this great experiment.
A note couched in precise terms, containing special interrogatories, was then drawn up and addressed to the Observatory of Cambridge in Massachusetts.
This city, where the first university of the United States was founded, is justly celebrated for its astronomical staff.
There are to be found assembled all the most eminent men of science.
Here is to be seen at work that powerful telescope which enabled Bond to resolve the nebula of Andromeda, and Clarke to discover the satellite of Sirius.
This celebrated institution fully justified on all points the confidence reposed in it by the Gun Club.
So, after two days, the reply so impatiently awaited was placed in the hands of President Barbicane.
It was couched in the following terms:
_The Director of the Cambridge Observatory to the President               of the Gun Club at Baltimore. _
CAMBRIDGE, October 7.
On the receipt of your favor of the 6th instant, addressed to the Observatory of Cambridge in the name of the members of the Baltimore Gun Club, our staff was immediately called together, and it was judged expedient to reply as follows:
The questions which have been proposed to it are these--
"1.
Is it possible to transmit a projectile up to the moon?
"2.
What is the exact distance which separates the earth from its satellite?
"3.
What will be the period of transit of the projectile when endowed with sufficient initial velocity? and, consequently, at what moment ought it to be discharged in order that it may touch the moon at a particular point?
"4.
At what precise moment will the moon present herself in the most favorable position to be reached by the projectile?
"5.
What point in the heavens ought the cannon to be aimed at which is intended to discharge the projectile?
"6.
What place will the moon occupy in the heavens at the moment of the projectile's departure?"
Regarding the _first_ question, "Is it possible to transmit a projectile up to the moon?"
_Answer. _--
Yes; provided it possess an initial velocity of 1,200 yards per second;
calculations prove that to be sufficient.
In proportion as we recede from the earth the action of gravitation diminishes in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance; that is to say, _at three times a given distance the action is nine times less. _
Consequently, the weight of a shot will decrease, and will become reduced to _zero_ at the instant that the attraction of the moon exactly counterpoises that of the earth; that is to say at 47/52 of its passage.
At that instant the projectile will have no weight whatever; and, if it passes that point, it will fall into the moon by the sole effect of the lunar attraction.
The _theoretical possibility_ of the experiment is therefore absolutely demonstrated;
its _success_ must depend upon the power of the engine employed.
As to the _second_ question, "What is the exact distance which separates the earth from its satellite?"
_Answer. _--
The moon does not describe a _circle_ round the earth, but rather an _ellipse_, of which our earth occupies one of the _foci_;
the consequence, therefore, is, that at certain times it approaches nearer to, and at others it recedes farther from, the earth; in astronomical language, it is at one time in _apogee_, at another in _perigee_.
Now the difference between its greatest and its least distance is too considerable to be left out of consideration.
In point of fact, in its apogee the moon is 247,552 miles, and in its perigee, 218,657 miles only distant; a fact which makes a difference of 28,895 miles, or more than one-ninth of the entire distance.
The perigee distance, therefore, is that which ought to serve as the basis of all calculations.
To the _third_ question.

_Answer. _--
If the shot should preserve continuously its initial velocity of 12,000 yards per second, it would require little more than nine hours to reach its destination;
but, inasmuch as that initial velocity will be continually decreasing, it will occupy 300,000 seconds, that is 83hrs. 20m. in reaching the point where the attraction of the earth and moon will be _in equilibrio_. From this point it will fall into the moon in 50,000 seconds, or 13hrs. 53m. 20sec.
It will be desirable, therefore, to discharge it 97hrs. 13m. 20sec. before the arrival of the moon at the point aimed at.
Regarding question _four_, "At what precise moment will the moon present herself in the most favorable position, etc.?"
_Answer. _--
After what has been said above, it will be necessary, first of all, to choose the period when the moon will be in perigee, and _also_ the moment when she will be crossing the zenith, which latter event will further diminish the entire distance by a length equal to the radius of the earth, _i. e._ 3,919 miles;
the result of which will be that the final passage remaining to be accomplished will be 214,976 miles.
But although the moon passes her perigee every month, she does not reach the zenith always _at exactly the same moment_.
She does not appear under these two conditions simultaneously, except at long intervals of time.
It will be necessary, therefore, to wait for the moment when her passage in perigee shall coincide with that in the zenith.
Now, by a fortunate circumstance, on the 4th of December in the ensuing year the moon _will_ present these two conditions.
At midnight she will be in perigee, that is, at her shortest distance from the earth, and at the same moment she will be crossing the zenith.
On the _fifth_ question, "At what point in the heavens ought the cannon to be aimed?"
_Answer. _--
The preceding remarks being admitted, the cannon ought to be pointed to the zenith of the place.
Its fire, therefore, will be perpendicular to the plane of the horizon; and the projectile will soonest pass beyond the range of the terrestrial attraction.
But, in order that the moon should reach the zenith of a given place, it is necessary that the place should not exceed in latitude the declination of the luminary; in other words, it must be comprised within the degrees 0@ and 28@ of lat. N. or S.
In every other spot the fire must necessarily be oblique, which would seriously militate against the success of the experiment.
As to the _sixth_ question, "What place will the moon occupy in the heavens at the moment of the projectile's departure?"
_Answer. _--
At the moment when the projectile shall be discharged into space, the moon, which travels daily forward 13@ 10' 35'', will be distant from the zenith point by four times that quantity, _i. e._ by 52@ 41' 20'', a space which corresponds to the path which she will describe during the entire journey of the projectile.
But, inasmuch as it is equally necessary to take into account the deviation which the rotary motion of the earth will impart to the shot, and as the shot cannot reach the moon until after a deviation equal to 16 radii of the earth, which, calculated upon the moon's orbit, are equal to about eleven degrees, it becomes necessary to add these eleven degrees to those which express the retardation of the moon just mentioned:  that is to say, in round numbers, about sixty-four degrees.
Consequently, at the moment of firing the visual radius applied to the moon will describe, with the vertical line of the place, an angle of sixty-four degrees.
These are our answers to the questions proposed to the Observatory of Cambridge by the members of the Gun Club:
To sum up--
1st.
The cannon ought to be planted in a country situated between 0@ and 28@ of N. or S. lat.
2nd.
It ought to be pointed directly toward the zenith of the place.
3rd.
The projectile ought to be propelled with an initial velocity of 12,000 yards per second.
4th.
It ought to be discharged at 10hrs. 46m. 40sec. of the 1st of December of the ensuing year.
5th.
It will meet the moon four days after its discharge, precisely at midnight on the 4th of December, at the moment of its transit across the zenith.
The members of the Gun Club ought, therefore, without delay, to commence the works necessary for such an experiment, and to be prepared to set to work at the moment determined upon; for, if they should suffer this 4th of December to go by, they will not find the moon again under the same conditions of perigee and of zenith until eighteen years and eleven days afterward.
The staff of the Cambridge Observatory place themselves entirely at their disposal in respect of all questions of theoretical astronomy; and herewith add their congratulations to those of all the rest of America.
For the Astronomical Staff,
J. M. BELFAST,          _Director of the Observatory of Cambridge. _
CHAPTER V

THE ROMANCE OF THE MOON
An observer endued with an infinite range of vision, and placed in that unknown center around which the entire world revolves, might have beheld myriads of atoms filling all space during the chaotic epoch of the universe.
Little by little, as ages went on, a change took place;
a general law of attraction manifested itself, to which the hitherto errant atoms became obedient:
these atoms combined together chemically according to their affinities, formed themselves into molecules, and composed those nebulous masses with which the depths of the heavens are strewed.
These masses became immediately endued with a rotary motion around their own central point.
This center, formed of indefinite molecules, began to revolve around its own axis during its gradual condensation;
then, following the immutable laws of mechanics, in proportion as its bulk diminished by condensation, its rotary motion became accelerated, and these two effects continuing, the result was the formation of one principal star, the center of the nebulous mass.
By attentively watching, the observer would then have perceived the other molecules of the mass, following the example of this central star, become likewise condensed by gradually accelerated rotation, and gravitating round it in the shape of innumerable stars.
Thus was formed the _Nebulae_, of which astronomers have reckoned up nearly 5,000.
Among these 5,000 nebulae there is one which has received the name of the Milky Way, and which contains eighteen millions of stars, each of which has become the center of a solar world.
If the observer had then specially directed his attention to one of the more humble and less brilliant of these stellar bodies, a star of the fourth class, that which is arrogantly called the Sun, all the phenomena to which the formation of the Universe is to be ascribed would have been successively fulfilled before his eyes.
In fact, he would have perceived this sun, as yet in the gaseous state, and composed of moving molecules, revolving round its axis in order to accomplish its work of concentration.
This motion, faithful to the laws of mechanics, would have been accelerated with the diminution of its volume; and a moment would have arrived when the centrifugal force would have overpowered the centripetal, which causes the molecules all to tend toward the center.
Another phenomenon would now have passed before the observer's eye, and the molecules situated on the plane of the equator, escaping like a stone from a sling of which the cord had suddenly snapped, would have formed around the sun sundry concentric rings resembling that of Saturn.
In their turn, again, these rings of cosmical matter, excited by a rotary motion about the central mass, would have been broken up and decomposed into secondary nebulosities, that is to say, into planets.
Similarly he would have observed these planets throw off one or more rings each, which became the origin of the secondary bodies which we call satellites.
Thus, then, advancing from atom to molecule, from molecule to nebulous mass, from that to principal star, from star to sun, from sun to planet, and hence to satellite, we have the whole series of transformations undergone by the heavenly bodies during the first days of the world.

Now, of those attendant bodies which the sun maintains in their elliptical orbits by the great law of gravitation, some few in turn possess satellites.
Uranus has eight, Saturn eight, Jupiter four, Neptune possibly three, and the Earth one.
This last, one of the least important of the entire solar system, we call the Moon; and it is she whom the daring genius of the Americans professed their intention of conquering.
The moon, by her comparative proximity, and the constantly varying appearances produced by her several phases, has always occupied a considerable share of the attention of the inhabitants of the earth.

From the time of Thales of Miletus, in the fifth century B.C., down to that of Copernicus in the fifteenth and Tycho Brahe in the sixteenth century A.D., observations have been from time to time carried on with more or less correctness, until in the present day the altitudes of the lunar mountains have been determined with exactitude.
Galileo explained the phenomena of the lunar light produced during certain of her phases by the existence of mountains, to which he assigned a mean altitude of 27,000 feet.
After him Hevelius, an astronomer of Dantzic, reduced the highest elevations to 15,000 feet;
but the calculations of Riccioli brought them up again to 21,000 feet.
At the close of the eighteenth century Herschel, armed with a powerful telescope, considerably reduced the preceding measurements.
He assigned a height of 11,400 feet to the maximum elevations, and reduced the mean of the different altitudes to little more than 2,400 feet.
But Herschel's calculations were in their turn corrected by the observations of Halley, Nasmyth, Bianchini, Gruithuysen, and others; but it was reserved for the labors of Boeer and Maedler finally to solve the question.

They succeeded in measuring 1,905 different elevations, of which six exceed 15,000 feet, and twenty-two exceed 14,400 feet.
The highest summit of all towers to a height of 22,606 feet above the surface of the lunar disc.
At the same period the examination of the moon was completed.
She appeared completely riddled with craters, and her essentially volcanic character was apparent at each observation.
By the absence of refraction in the rays of the planets occulted by her we conclude that she is absolutely devoid of an atmosphere.
The absence of air entails the absence of water.
It became, therefore, manifest that the Selenites, to support life under such conditions, must possess a special organization of their own, must differ remarkably from the inhabitants of the earth.
At length, thanks to modern art, instruments of still higher perfection searched the moon without intermission, not leaving a single point of her surface unexplored; and notwithstanding that her diameter measures 2,150 miles, her surface equals the one-fifteenth part of that of our globe, and her bulk the one-forty-ninth part of that of the terrestrial spheroid--
not one of her secrets was able to escape the eyes of the astronomers; and these skillful men of science carried to an even greater degree their prodigious observations.
Thus they remarked that, during full moon, the disc appeared scored in certain parts with white lines; and, during the phases, with black.
On prosecuting the study of these with still greater precision, they succeeded in obtaining an exact account of the nature of these lines.
They were long and narrow furrows sunk between parallel ridges, bordering generally upon the edges of the craters.
Their length varied between ten and 100 miles, and their width was about 1,600 yards.
Astronomers called them chasms, but they could not get any further.
Whether these chasms were the dried-up beds of ancient rivers or not they were unable thoroughly to ascertain.
The Americans, among others, hoped one day or other to determine this geological question.
They also undertook to examine the true nature of that system of parallel ramparts discovered on the moon's surface by Gruithuysen, a learned professor of Munich, who considered them to be "a system of fortifications thrown up by the Selenitic engineers."
These two points, yet obscure, as well as others, no doubt, could not be definitely settled except by direct communication with the moon.
Regarding the degree of intensity of its light, there was nothing more to learn on this point.
It was known that it is 300,000 times weaker than that of the sun, and that its heat has no appreciable effect upon the thermometer.
As to the phenomenon known as the "ashy light," it is explained naturally by the effect of the transmission of the solar rays from the earth to the moon, which give the appearance of completeness to the lunar disc, while it presents itself under the crescent form during its first and last phases.
Such was the state of knowledge acquired regarding the earth's satellite, which the Gun Club undertook to perfect in all its aspects, cosmographic, geological, political, and moral.
CHAPTER VI

PERMISSIVE LIMITS OF IGNORANCE AND BELIEF IN THE UNITED STATES
The immediate result of Barbicane's proposition was to place upon the orders of the day all the astronomical facts relative to the Queen of the Night.
Everybody set to work to study assiduously.
One would have thought that the moon had just appeared for the first time, and that no one had ever before caught a glimpse of her in the heavens.

The papers revived all the old anecdotes in which the "sun of the wolves" played a part;
they recalled the influences which the ignorance of past ages ascribed to her;

in short, all America was seized with selenomania, or had become moon-mad.
The scientific journals, for their part, dealt more especially with the questions which touched upon the enterprise of the Gun Club.
The letter of the Observatory of Cambridge was published by them, and commented upon with unreserved approval.

Until that time most people had been ignorant of the mode in which the distance which separates the moon from the earth is calculated.
They took advantage of this fact to explain to them that this distance was obtained by measuring the parallax of the moon.
The term parallax proving "caviare to the general," they further explained that it meant the angle formed by the inclination of two straight lines drawn from either extremity of the earth's radius to the moon.
On doubts being expressed as to the correctness of this method, they immediately proved that not only was the mean distance 234,347 miles, but that astronomers could not possibly be in error in their estimate by more than seventy miles either way.
To those who were not familiar with the motions of the moon, they demonstrated that she possesses two distinct motions, the first being that of rotation upon her axis, the second being that of revolution round the earth, accomplishing both together in an equal period of time, that is to say, in twenty-seven and one-third days.
The motion of rotation is that which produces day and night on the surface of the moon;
save that there is only one day and one night in the lunar month, each lasting three hundred and fifty-four and one-third hours.
But, happily for her, the face turned toward the terrestrial globe is illuminated by it with an intensity equal to that of fourteen moons.
As to the other face, always invisible to us, it has of necessity three hundred and fifty-four hours of absolute night, tempered only by that "pale glimmer which falls upon it from the stars."

Some well-intentioned, but rather obstinate persons, could not at first comprehend how, if the moon displays invariably the same face to the earth during her revolution, she can describe one turn round herself.
To such they answered, "Go into your dining-room, and walk round the table in such a way as to always keep your face turned toward the center;
by the time you will have achieved one complete round you will have completed one turn around yourself, since your eye will have traversed successively every point of the room.
Well, then, the room is the heavens, the table is the earth, and the moon is yourself."
And they would go away delighted.
So, then the moon displays invariably the same face to the earth;
nevertheless, to be quite exact, it is necessary to add that, in consequence of certain fluctuations of north and south, and of west and east, termed her libration, she permits rather more than half, that is to say, five-sevenths, to be seen.
As soon as the ignoramuses came to understand as much as the director of the observatory himself knew, they began to worry themselves regarding her revolution round the earth, whereupon twenty scientific reviews immediately came to the rescue.
They pointed out to them that the firmament, with its infinitude of stars, may be considered as one vast dial-plate, upon which the moon travels, indicating the true time to all the inhabitants of the earth; that it is during this movement that the Queen of Night exhibits her different phases; that the moon is _full_ when she is in _opposition_ with the sun, that is when the three bodies are on the same straight line, the earth occupying the center; that she is _new_ when she is in _conjunction_ with the sun, that is, when she is between it and the earth; and, lastly that she is in her _first_ or _last_ quarter, when she makes with the sun and the earth an angle of which she herself occupies the apex.

Regarding the altitude which the moon attains above the horizon, the letter of the Cambridge Observatory had said all that was to be said in this respect.
Every one knew that this altitude varies according to the latitude of the observer.
But the only zones of the globe in which the moon passes the zenith, that is, the point directly over the head of the spectator, are of necessity comprised between the twenty-eighth parallels and the equator.
Hence the importance of the advice to try the experiment upon some point of that part of the globe, in order that the projectile might be discharged perpendicularly, and so the soonest escape the action of gravitation.
This was an essential condition to the success of the enterprise, and continued actively to engage the public attention.
Regarding the path described by the moon in her revolution round the earth, the Cambridge Observatory had demonstrated that this path is a re-entering curve, not a perfect circle, but an ellipse, of which the earth occupies one of the _foci_.

It was also well understood that it is farthest removed from the earth during its _apogee_, and approaches most nearly to it at its _perigee_.
Such was then the extent of knowledge possessed by every American on the subject, and of which no one could decently profess ignorance.
Still, while these principles were being rapidly disseminated many errors and illusory fears proved less easy to eradicate.
For instance, some worthy persons maintained that the moon was an ancient comet which, in describing its elongated orbit round the sun, happened to pass near the earth, and became confined within her circle of attraction.
These drawing-room astronomers professed to explain the charred aspect of the moon-- a disaster which they attributed to the intensity of the solar heat;
only, on being reminded that comets have an atmosphere, and that the moon has little or none, they were fairly at a loss for a reply.
Others again, belonging to the doubting class, expressed certain fears as to the position of the moon.
They had heard it said that, according to observations made in the time of the Caliphs, her revolution had become accelerated in a certain degree.
Hence they concluded, logically enough, that an acceleration of motion ought to be accompanied by a corresponding diminution in the distance separating the two bodies; and that, supposing the double effect to be continued to infinity, the moon would end by one day falling into the earth.
However, they became reassured as to the fate of future generations on being apprised that, according to the calculations of Laplace, this acceleration of motion is confined within very restricted limits, and that a proportional diminution of speed will be certain to succeed it.
So, then, the stability of the solar system would not be deranged in ages to come.
There remains but the third class, the superstitious.
These worthies were not content merely to rest in ignorance; they must know all about things which had no existence whatever, and as to the moon, they had long known all about her.
One set regarded her disc as a polished mirror, by means of which people could see each other from different points of the earth and interchange their thoughts.
Another set pretended that out of one thousand new moons that had been observed, nine hundred and fifty had been attended with remarkable disturbances, such as cataclysms, revolutions, earthquakes, the deluge, etc.
Then they believed in some mysterious influence exercised by her over human destinies-- that every Selenite was attached to some inhabitant of the earth by a tie of sympathy;
they maintained that the entire vital system is subject to her control, etc.
But in time the majority renounced these vulgar errors, and espoused the true side of the question.
As for the Yankees, they had no other ambition than to take possession of this new continent of the sky, and to plant upon the summit of its highest elevation the star- spangled banner of the United States of America.
CHAPTER VII

THE HYMN OF THE CANNON-BALL
The Observatory of Cambridge in its memorable letter had treated the question from a purely astronomical point of view.
The mechanical part still remained.

President Barbicane had, without loss of time, nominated a working committee of the Gun Club.
The duty of this committee was to resolve the three grand questions of the cannon, the projectile, and the powder.
It was composed of four members of great technical knowledge, Barbicane (with a casting vote in case of equality), General Morgan, Major Elphinstone, and J. T. Maston, to whom were confided the functions of secretary.
On the 8th of October the committee met at the house of President Barbicane, 3 Republican Street.

The meeting was opened by the president himself.
"Gentlemen," said he, "we have to resolve one of the most important problems in the whole of the noble science of gunnery.

It might appear, perhaps, the most logical course to devote our first meeting to the discussion of the engine to be employed.

Nevertheless, after mature consideration, it has appeared to me that the question of the projectile must take precedence of that of the cannon, and that the dimensions of the latter must necessarily depend on those of the former."
"Suffer me to say a word," here broke in J. T. Maston.
Permission having been granted, "Gentlemen," said he with an inspired accent, "our president is right in placing the question of the projectile above all others.
The ball we are about to discharge at the moon is our ambassador to her, and I wish to consider it from a moral point of view.

The cannon-ball, gentlemen, to my mind, is the most magnificent manifestation of human power.

If Providence has created the stars and the planets, man has called the cannon-ball into existence.
Let Providence claim the swiftness of electricity and of light, of the stars, the comets, and the planets, of wind and sound--
we claim to have invented the swiftness of the cannon-ball, a hundred times superior to that of the swiftest horses or railway train.

How glorious will be the moment when, infinitely exceeding all hitherto attained velocities, we shall launch our new projectile with the rapidity of seven miles a second!
Shall it not, gentlemen-- shall it not be received up there with the honors due to a terrestrial ambassador?"
Overcome with emotion the orator sat down and applied himself to a huge plate of sandwiches before him.
"And now," said Barbicane, "let us quit the domain of poetry and come direct to the question."
"By all means," replied the members, each with his mouth full of sandwich.
"The problem before us," continued the president, "is how to communicate to a projectile a velocity of 12,000 yards per second.

Let us at present examine the velocities hitherto attained.
General Morgan will be able to enlighten us on this point."
"And the more easily," replied the general, "that during the war I was a member of the committee of experiments.
I may say, then, that the 100-pounder Dahlgrens, which carried a distance of 5,000 yards, impressed upon their projectile an initial velocity of 500 yards a second.

The Rodman Columbiad threw a shot weighing half a ton a distance of six miles, with a velocity of 800 yards per second-- a result which Armstrong and Palisser have never obtained in England."

"This," replied Barbicane, "is, I believe, the maximum velocity ever attained?"
"It is so," replied the general.
"Ah!" groaned J. T. Maston, "if my mortar had not burst----"
"Yes," quietly replied Barbicane, "but it did burst.
We must take, then, for our starting point, this velocity of 800 yards.
We must increase it twenty-fold.
Now, reserving for another discussion the means of producing this velocity, I will call your attention to the dimensions which it will be proper to assign to the shot.
You understand that we have nothing to do here with projectiles weighing at most but half a ton."
"Why not?" demanded the major.
"Because the shot," quickly replied J. T. Maston, "must be big enough to attract the attention of the inhabitants of the moon, if there are any?"
"Yes," replied Barbicane, "and for another reason more important still."
"What mean you?" asked the major.
"I mean that it is not enough to discharge a projectile, and then take no further notice of it;
we must follow it throughout its course, up to the moment when it shall reach its goal."
"What?" shouted the general and the major in great surprise.
"Undoubtedly," replied Barbicane composedly, "or our experiment would produce no result."
"But then," replied the major, "you will have to give this projectile enormous dimensions."
"No!
Be so good as to listen.
You know that optical instruments have acquired great perfection;
with certain instruments we have succeeded in obtaining enlargements of 6,000 times and reducing the moon to within forty miles' distance.
Now, at this distance, any objects sixty feet square would be perfectly visible.
"If, then, the penetrative power of telescopes has not been further increased, it is because that power detracts from their light; and the moon, which is but a reflecting mirror, does not give back sufficient light to enable us to perceive objects of lesser magnitude."
"Well, then, what do you propose to do?" asked the general.
" Would you give your projectile a diameter of sixty feet?"
"Not so."
"Do you intend, then, to increase the luminous power of the moon?"
"Exactly so.

If I can succeed in diminishing the density of the atmosphere through which the moon's light has to travel I shall have rendered her light more intense.

To effect that object it will be enough to establish a telescope on some elevated mountain.
That is what we will do."
"I give it up," answered the major.
" You have such a way of simplifying things.
And what enlargement do you expect to obtain in this way?"
"One of 48,000 times, which should bring the moon within an apparent distance of five miles; and, in order to be visible, objects need not have a diameter of more than nine feet."
"So, then," cried J. T. Maston, "our projectile need not be more than nine feet in diameter."

"Let me observe, however," interrupted Major Elphinstone, "this will involve a weight such as----"
"My dear major," replied Barbicane, "before discussing its weight permit me to enumerate some of the marvels which our ancestors have achieved in this respect.
I don't mean to pretend that the science of gunnery has not advanced, but it is as well to bear in mind that during the middle ages they obtained results more surprising, I will venture to say, than ours.

For instance, during the siege of Constantinople by Mahomet II., in 1453, stone shot of 1,900 pounds weight were employed.

At Malta, in the time of the knights, there was a gun of the fortress of St. Elmo which threw a projectile weighing 2,500 pounds.

And, now, what is the extent of what we have seen ourselves?
Armstrong guns discharging shot of 500 pounds, and the Rodman guns projectiles of half a ton!
It seems, then, that if projectiles have gained in range, they have lost far more in weight.
Now, if we turn our efforts in that direction, we ought to arrive, with the progress on science, at ten times the weight of the shot of Mahomet II. and the Knights of Malta."
"Clearly," replied the major; "but what metal do you calculate upon employing?"
"Simply cast iron," said General Morgan.

"But," interrupted the major, "since the weight of a shot is proportionate to its volume, an iron ball of nine feet in diameter would be of tremendous weight."
"Yes, if it were solid, not if it were hollow."
"Hollow? then it would be a shell?"

"Yes, a shell," replied Barbicane;
"decidely it must be.
A solid shot of 108 inches would weigh more than 200,000 pounds, a weight evidently far too great.
Still, as we must reserve a certain stability for our projectile, I propose to give it a weight of 20,000 pounds."
"What, then, will be the thickness of the sides?" asked the major.
"If we follow the usual proportion," replied Morgan, "a diameter of 108 inches would require sides of two feet thickness, or less."
"That would be too much," replied Barbicane;
"for you will observe that the question is not that of a shot intended to pierce an iron plate;
it will suffice to give it sides strong enough to resist the pressure of the gas.
The problem, therefore, is this--
What thickness ought a cast-iron shell to have in order not to weight more than 20,000 pounds?
Our clever secretary will soon enlighten us upon this point."
"Nothing easier." replied the worthy secretary of the committee;
and, rapidly tracing a few algebraical formulae upon paper, among which _n_^2 and _x_^2 frequently appeared, he presently said:
"The sides will require a thickness of less than two inches."
"Will that be enough?" asked the major doubtfully.
"Clearly not!" replied the president.
"What is to be done, then?" said Elphinstone, with a puzzled air.
"Employ another metal instead of iron."
"Copper?" said Morgan.
"No! that would be too heavy.
I have better than that to offer."
"What then?" asked the major.
"Aluminum!" replied Barbicane.
"Aluminum?" cried his three colleagues in chorus.
"Unquestionably, my friends.

This valuable metal possesses the whiteness of silver, the indestructibility of gold, the tenacity of iron, the fusibility of copper, the lightness of glass.
It is easily wrought, is very widely distributed, forming the base of most of the rocks, is three times lighter than iron, and seems to have been created for the express purpose of furnishing us with the material for our projectile."

"But, my dear president," said the major, "is not the cost price of aluminum extremely high?"
"It was so at its first discovery, but it has fallen now to nine dollars a pound."
"But still, nine dollars a pound!" replied the major, who was not willing readily to give in; "even that is an enormous price."
"Undoubtedly, my dear major; but not beyond our reach."
"What will the projectile weigh then?" asked Morgan.
"Here is the result of my calculations," replied Barbicane.
" A shot of 108 inches in diameter, and twelve inches in thickness, would weigh, in cast-iron, 67,440 pounds;
cast in aluminum, its weight will be reduced to 19,250 pounds."

"Capital!" cried the major; "but do you know that, at nine dollars a pound, this projectile will cost----"
"One hundred and seventy-three thousand and fifty dollars ($173,050). I know it quite well.
But fear not, my friends; the money will not be wanting for our enterprise. I will answer for it.

Now what say you to aluminum, gentlemen?"
"Adopted!" replied the three members of the committee.

So ended the first meeting.
The question of the projectile was definitely settled.
CHAPTER VII

HISTORY OF THE CANNON
The resolutions passed at the last meeting produced a great effect out of doors.
Timid people took fright at the idea of a shot weighing 20,000 pounds being launched into space;
they asked what cannon could ever transmit a sufficient velocity to such a mighty mass.
The minutes of the second meeting were destined triumphantly to answer such questions.
The following evening the discussion was renewed.
"My dear colleagues," said Barbicane, without further preamble, "the subject now before us is the construction of the engine, its length, its composition, and its weight.
It is probable that we shall end by giving it gigantic dimensions;
but however great may be the difficulties in the way, our mechanical genius will readily surmount them.
Be good enough, then, to give me your attention, and do not hesitate to make objections at the close.
I have no fear of them.

The problem before us is how to communicate an initial force of 12,000 yards per second to a shell of 108 inches in diameter, weighing 20,000 pounds.

Now when a projectile is launched into space, what happens to it?
It is acted upon by three independent forces:  the resistance of the air, the attraction of the earth, and the force of impulsion with which it is endowed.
Let us examine these three forces.
The resistance of the air is of little importance.
The atmosphere of the earth does not exceed forty miles.
Now, with the given rapidity, the projectile will have traversed this in five seconds, and the period is too brief for the resistance of the medium to be regarded otherwise than as insignificant.
Proceding, then, to the attraction of the earth, that is, the weight of the shell, we know that this weight will diminish in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance.

When a body left to itself falls to the surface of the earth, it falls five feet in the first second;
and if the same body were removed 257,542 miles further off, in other words, to the distance of the moon, its fall would be reduced to about half a line in the first second.
That is almost equivalent to a state of perfect rest.
Our business, then, is to overcome progressively this action of gravitation.
The mode of accomplishing that is by the force of impulsion."
"There's the difficulty," broke in the major.
"True," replied the president; "but we will overcome that, for the force of impulsion will depend on the length of the engine and the powder employed, the latter being limited only by the resisting power of the former.
Our business, then, to-day is with the dimensions of the cannon."

"Now, up to the present time," said Barbicane, "our longest guns have not exceeded twenty-five feet in length.
We shall therefore astonish the world by the dimensions we shall be obliged to adopt.

It must evidently be, then, a gun of great range, since the length of the piece will increase the detention of the gas accumulated behind the projectile; but there is no advantage in passing certain limits."
"Quite so," said the major.
" What is the rule in such a case?"
"Ordinarily the length of a gun is twenty to twenty-five times the diameter of the shot, and its weight two hundred and thirty-five to two hundred and forty times that of the shot."
"That is not enough," cried J. T. Maston impetuously.
"I agree with you, my good friend; and, in fact, following this proportion for a projectile nine feet in diameter, weighing 30,000 pounds, the gun would only have a length of two hundred and twenty- five feet, and a weight of 7,200,000 pounds."
"Ridiculous!" rejoined Maston.
" As well take a pistol."
"I think so too," replied Barbicane; "that is why I propose to quadruple that length, and to construct a gun of nine hundred feet."
The general and the major offered some objections;
nevertheless, the proposition, actively supported by the secretary, was definitely adopted.
"But," said Elphinstone, "what thickness must we give it?"
"A thickness of six feet," replied Barbicane.
"You surely don't think of mounting a mass like that upon a carriage?" asked the major.
"It would be a superb idea, though," said Maston.
"But impracticable," replied Barbicane.
" No, I think of sinking this engine in the earth alone, binding it with hoops of wrought iron, and finally surrounding it with a thick mass of masonry of stone and cement.
The piece once cast, it must be bored with great precision, so as to preclude any possible windage.
So there will be no loss whatever of gas, and all the expansive force of the powder will be employed in the propulsion."

"One simple question," said Elphinstone:  "is our gun to be rifled?"
"No, certainly not," replied Barbicane;
"we require an enormous initial velocity; and you are well aware that a shot quits a rifled gun less rapidly than it does a smooth-bore."
"True," rejoined the major.

The committee here adjourned for a few minutes to tea and sandwiches.
On the discussion being renewed, "Gentlemen," said Barbicane, "we must now take into consideration the metal to be employed. Our cannon must be possessed of great tenacity, great hardness, be infusible by heat, indissoluble, and inoxidable by the corrosive action of acids."
"There is no doubt about that," replied the major; "and as we shall have to employ an immense quantity of metal, we shall not be at a loss for choice."
"Well, then," said Morgan, "I propose the best alloy hitherto known, which consists of one hundred parts of copper, twelve of tin, and six of brass."
"I admit," replied the president, "that this composition has yielded excellent results, but in the present case it would be too expensive, and very difficult to work.
I think, then, that we ought to adopt a material excellent in its way and of low price, such as cast iron.
What is your advice, major?"
"I quite agree with you," replied Elphinstone.
"In fact," continued Barbicane, "cast iron costs ten times less than bronze;
it is easy to cast, it runs readily from the moulds of sand, it is easy of manipulation, it is at once economical of money and of time.
In addition, it is excellent as a material, and I well remember that during the war, at the siege of Atlanta, some iron guns fired one thousand rounds at intervals of twenty minutes without injury."
"Cast iron is very brittle, though," replied Morgan.
"Yes, but it possesses great resistance.

I will now ask our worthy secretary to calculate the weight of a cast-iron gun with a bore of nine feet and a thickness of six feet of metal."
"In a moment," replied Maston.
Then, dashing off some algebraical formulae with marvelous facility, in a minute or two he declared the following result:
"The cannon will weigh 68,040 tons.
And, at two cents a pound, it will cost----"
"Two million five hundred and ten thousand seven hundred and one dollars."
Maston, the major, and the general regarded Barbicane with uneasy looks.
"Well, gentlemen," replied the president, "I repeat what I said yesterday. Make yourselves easy; the millions will not be wanting."
With this assurance of their president the committee separated, after having fixed their third meeting for the following evening.
CHAPTER IX

THE QUESTION OF THE POWDERS
There remained for consideration merely the question of powders.
The public awaited with interest its final decision.
The size of the projectile, the length of the cannon being settled, what would be the quantity of powder necessary to produce impulsion?

It is generally asserted that gunpowder was invented in the fourteenth century by the monk Schwartz, who paid for his grand discovery with his life.
It is, however, pretty well proved that this story ought to be ranked among the legends of the middle ages.
Gunpowder was not invented by any one;
it was the lineal successor of the Greek fire, which, like itself, was composed of sulfur and saltpeter.

Few persons are acquainted with the mechanical power of gunpowder.
Now this is precisely what is necessary to be understood in order to comprehend the importance of the question submitted to the committee.
A litre of gunpowder weighs about two pounds;
during combustion it produces 400 litres of gas. This gas, on being liberated and acted upon by temperature raised to 2,400 degrees, occupies a space of 4,000 litres:
consequently the volume of powder is to the volume of gas produced by its combustion as 1 to 4,000.
One may judge, therefore, of the tremendous pressure on this gas when compressed within a space 4,000 times too confined.
All this was, of course, well known to the members of the committee when they met on the following evening.
The first speaker on this occasion was Major Elphinstone, who had been the director of the gunpowder factories during the war.
"Gentlemen," said this distinguished chemist, "I begin with some figures which will serve as the basis of our calculation.
The old 24-pounder shot required for its discharge sixteen pounds of powder."
"You are certain of this amount?" broke in Barbicane.
"Quite certain," replied the major.
" The Armstrong cannon employs only seventy-five pounds of powder for a projectile of eight hundred pounds, and the Rodman Columbiad uses only one hundred and sixty pounds of powder to send its half ton shot a distance of six miles.
These facts cannot be called in question, for I myself raised the point during the depositions taken before the committee of artillery."
"Quite true," said the general.
"Well," replied the major, "these figures go to prove that the quantity of powder is not increased with the weight of the shot; that is to say, if a 24-pounder shot requires sixteen pounds of powder;--
in other words, if in ordinary guns we employ a quantity of powder equal to two-thirds of the weight of the projectile, this proportion is not constant.
Calculate, and you will see that in place of three hundred and thirty-three pounds of powder, the quantity is reduced to no more than one hundred and sixty pounds."
"What are you aiming at?" asked the president.
"If you push your theory to extremes, my dear major," said J. T. Maston, "you will get to this, that as soon as your shot becomes sufficiently heavy you will not require any powder at all."
"Our friend Maston is always at his jokes, even in serious matters," cried the major; "but let him make his mind easy, I am going presently to propose gunpowder enough to satisfy his artillerist's propensities.
I only keep to statistical facts when I say that, during the war, and for the very largest guns, the weight of the powder was reduced, as the result of experience, to a tenth part of the weight of the shot."
"Perfectly correct," said Morgan;
"but before deciding the quantity of powder necessary to give the impulse, I think it would be as well----"
"We shall have to employ a large-grained powder," continued the major;
"its combustion is more rapid than that of the small."
"No doubt about that," replied Morgan; "but it is very destructive, and ends by enlarging the bore of the pieces."
"Granted;
but that which is injurious to a gun destined to perform long service is not so to our Columbiad.
We shall run no danger of an explosion; and it is necessary that our powder should take fire instantaneously in order that its mechanical effect may be complete."
"We must have," said Maston, "several touch-holes, so as to fire it at different points at the same time."
"Certainly," replied Elphinstone; "but that will render the working of the piece more difficult.
I return then to my large-grained powder, which removes those difficulties.

In his Columbiad charges Rodman employed a powder as large as chestnuts, made of willow charcoal, simply dried in cast- iron pans.
This powder was hard and glittering, left no trace upon the hand, contained hydrogen and oxygen in large proportion, took fire instantaneously, and, though very destructive, did not sensibly injure the mouth-piece."

Up to this point Barbicane had kept aloof from the discussion;
he left the others to speak while he himself listened;
he had evidently got an idea.
He now simply said, "Well, my friends, what quantity of powder do you propose?"
The three members looked at one another.
"Two hundred thousand pounds." at last said Morgan.
"Five hundred thousand," added the major.
"Eight hundred thousand," screamed Maston.

A moment of silence followed this triple proposal;
it was at last broken by the president.
"Gentlemen," he quietly said, "I start from this principle, that the resistance of a gun, constructed under the given conditions, is unlimited.
I shall surprise our friend Maston, then, by stigmatizing his calculations as timid; and I propose to double his 800,000 pounds of powder."
"Sixteen hundred thousand pounds?" shouted Maston, leaping from his seat.
"Just so."
"We shall have to come then to my ideal of a cannon half a mile long;

for you see 1,600,000 pounds will occupy a space of about 20,000 cubic feet;
and since the contents of your cannon do not exceed 54,000 cubic feet, it would be half full; and the bore will not be more than long enough for the gas to communicate to the projectile sufficient impulse."

"Nevertheless," said the president, "I hold to that quantity of powder.
Now, 1,600,000 pounds of powder will create 6,000,000,000 litres of gas.
Six thousand millions!
You quite understand?"
"What is to be done then?" said the general.
"The thing is very simple;
we must reduce this enormous quantity of powder, while preserving to it its mechanical power."
"Good;
but by what means?"
"I am going to tell you," replied Barbicane quietly.

"Nothing is more easy than to reduce this mass to one quarter of its bulk.
You know that curious cellular matter which constitutes the elementary tissues of vegetable?

This substance is found quite pure in many bodies, especially in cotton, which is nothing more than the down of the seeds of the cotton plant.
Now cotton, combined with cold nitric acid, become transformed into a substance eminently insoluble, combustible, and explosive.
It was first discovered in 1832, by Braconnot, a French chemist, who called it xyloidine.
In 1838 another Frenchman, Pelouze, investigated its different properties, and finally, in 1846, Schonbein, professor of chemistry at Bale, proposed its employment for purposes of war.
This powder, now called pyroxyle, or fulminating cotton, is prepared with great facility by simply plunging cotton for fifteen minutes in nitric acid, then washing it in water, then drying it, and it is ready for use."
"Nothing could be more simple," said Morgan.
"Moreover, pyroxyle is unaltered by moisture-- a valuable property to us, inasmuch as it would take several days to charge the cannon.
It ignites at 170 degrees in place of 240, and its combustion is so rapid that one may set light to it on the top of the ordinary powder, without the latter having time to ignite."
"Perfect!" exclaimed the major.
"Only it is more expensive."
"What matter?" cried J. T. Maston.
"Finally, it imparts to projectiles a velocity four times superior to that of gunpowder.
I will even add, that if we mix it with one-eighth of its own weight of nitrate of potassium, its expansive force is again considerably augmented."
"Will that be necessary?" asked the major.
"I think not," replied Barbicane.
" So, then, in place of 1,600,000 pounds of powder, we shall have but 400,000 pounds of fulminating cotton; and since we can, without danger, compress 500 pounds of cotton into twenty-seven cubic feet, the whole quantity will not occupy a height of more than 180 feet within the bore of the Columbiad.
In this way the shot will have more than 700 feet of bore to traverse under a force of 6,000,000,000 litres of gas before taking its flight toward the moon."
At this juncture J. T. Maston could not repress his emotion;
he flung himself into the arms of his friend with the violence of a projectile, and Barbicane would have been stove in if he had not been boom-proof.
This incident terminated the third meeting of the committee.
Barbicane and his bold colleagues, to whom nothing seemed impossible, had succeeding in solving the complex problems of projectile, cannon, and powder.
Their plan was drawn up, and it only remained to put it into execution.
"A mere matter of detail, a bagatelle," said J. T. Maston.

CHAPTER X

ONE ENEMY _v._ TWENTY-FIVE MILLIONS OF FRIENDS
The American public took a lively interest in the smallest details of the enterprise of the Gun Club.
It followed day by day the discussion of the committee.
The most simple preparations for the great experiment, the questions of figures which it involved, the mechanical difficulties to be resolved-- in one word, the entire plan of work-- roused the popular excitement to the highest pitch.

The purely scientific attraction was suddenly intensified by the following incident:
We have seen what legions of admirers and friends Barbicane's project had rallied round its author.

There was, however, one single individual alone in all the States of the Union who protested against the attempt of the Gun Club.
He attacked it furiously on every opportunity, and human nature is such that Barbicane felt more keenly the opposition of that one man than he did the applause of all the others.
He was well aware of the motive of this antipathy, the origin of this solitary enmity, the cause of its personality and old standing, and in what rivalry of self-love it had its rise.
This persevering enemy the president of the Gun Club had never seen.
Fortunate that it was so, for a meeting between the two men would certainly have been attended with serious consequences.
This rival was a man of science, like Barbicane himself, of a fiery, daring, and violent disposition; a pure Yankee.
His name was Captain Nicholl;
he lived at Philadelphia.
Most people are aware of the curious struggle which arose during the Federal war between the guns and armor of iron-plated ships.

The result was the entire reconstruction of the navy of both the continents;
as the one grew heavier, the other became thicker in proportion.

The Merrimac, the Monitor, the Tennessee, the Weehawken discharged enormous projectiles themselves, after having been armor-clad against the projectiles of others.
In fact they did to others that which they would not they should do to them-- that grand principle of immortality upon which rests the whole art of war.
Now if Barbicane was a great founder of shot, Nicholl was a great forger of plates;
the one cast night and day at Baltimore, the other forged day and night at Philadelphia.
As soon as ever Barbicane invented a new shot, Nicholl invented a new plate; each followed a current of ideas essentially opposed to the other.

Happily for these citizens, so useful to their country, a distance of from fifty to sixty miles separated them from one another, and they had never yet met.
Which of these two inventors had the advantage over the other it was difficult to decide from the results obtained.
By last accounts, however, it would seem that the armor-plate would in the end have to give way to the shot;
nevertheless, there were competent judges who had their doubts on the point.
At the last experiment the cylindro-conical projectiles of Barbicane stuck like so many pins in the Nicholl plates.
On that day the Philadelphia iron-forger then believed himself victorious, and could not evince contempt enough for his rival;
but when the other afterward substituted for conical shot simple 600-pound shells, at very moderate velocity, the captain was obliged to give in.
In fact, these projectiles knocked his best metal plate to shivers.
Matters were at this stage, and victory seemed to rest with the shot, when the war came to an end on the very day when Nicholl had completed a new armor-plate of wrought steel.
It was a masterpiece of its kind, and bid defiance to all the projectiles of the world.
The captain had it conveyed to the Polygon at Washington, challenging the president of the Gun Club to break it.
Barbicane, peace having been declared, declined to try the experiment.
Nicholl, now furious, offered to expose his plate to the shock of any shot, solid, hollow, round, or conical.
Refused by the president, who did not choose to compromise his last success.
Nicholl, disgusted by this obstinacy, tried to tempt Barbicane by offering him every chance.
He proposed to fix the plate within two hundred yards of the gun.
Barbicane still obstinate in refusal.
A hundred yards?
Not even seventy-five!
"At fifty then!" roared the captain through the newspapers. " At twenty-five yards! and I'll stand behind!"
Barbicane returned for answer that, even if Captain Nicholl would be so good as to stand in front, he would not fire any more.
Nicholl could not contain himself at this reply;

threw out hints of cowardice;
that a man who refused to fire a cannon-shot was pretty near being afraid of it;
that artillerists who fight at six miles distance are substituting mathematical formulae for individual courage.
To these insinuations Barbicane returned no answer;
perhaps he never heard of them, so absorbed was he in the calculations for his great enterprise.
When his famous communication was made to the Gun Club, the captain's wrath passed all bounds;
with his intense jealousy was mingled a feeling of absolute impotence.
How was he to invent anything to beat this 900-feet Columbiad?
What armor-plate could ever resist a projectile of 30,000 pounds weight?
Overwhelmed at first under this violent shock, he by and by recovered himself, and resolved to crush the proposal by weight of his arguments.
He then violently attacked the labors of the Gun Club, published a number of letters in the newspapers, endeavored to prove Barbicane ignorant of the first principles of gunnery.
He maintained that it was absolutely impossible to impress upon any body whatever a velocity of 12,000 yards per second; that even with such a velocity a projectile of such a weight could not transcend the limits of the earth's atmosphere.

Further still, even regarding the velocity to be acquired, and granting it to be sufficient, the shell could not resist the pressure of the gas developed by the ignition of 1,600,000 pounds of powder; and supposing it to resist that pressure, it would be less able to support that temperature; it would melt on quitting the Columbiad, and fall back in a red-hot shower upon the heads of the imprudent spectators.
Barbicane continued his work without regarding these attacks.
Nicholl then took up the question in its other aspects.
Without touching upon its uselessness in all points of view, he regarded the experiment as fraught with extreme danger, both to the citizens, who might sanction by their presence so reprehensible a spectacle, and also to the towns in the neighborhood of this deplorable cannon.
He also observed that if the projectile did not succeed in reaching its destination (a result absolutely impossible), it must inevitably fall back upon the earth, and that the shock of such a mass, multiplied by the square of its velocity, would seriously endanger every point of the globe.
Under the circumstances, therefore, and without interfering with the rights of free citizens, it was a case for the intervention of Government, which ought not to endanger the safety of all for the pleasure of one individual.

In spite of all his arguments, however, Captain Nicholl remained alone in his opinion.
Nobody listened to him, and he did not succeed in alienating a single admirer from the president of the Gun Club.
The latter did not even take the pains to refute the arguments of his rival.
Nicholl, driven into his last entrenchments, and not able to fight personally in the cause, resolved to fight with money.
He published, therefore, in the Richmond _Inquirer_ a series of wagers, conceived in these terms, and on an increasing scale:

No. 1
($1,000). -- That the necessary funds for the experiment of the Gun Club will not be forthcoming.
No. 2
($2,000). -- That the operation of casting a cannon of 900 feet is impracticable, and cannot possibly succeed.
No. 3
($3,000). -- That is it impossible to load the Columbiad, and that the pyroxyle will take fire spontaneously under the pressure of the projectile.
No. 4
($4,000). -- That the Columbiad will burst at the first fire.
No. 5
($5,000). -- That the shot will not travel farther than six miles, and that it will fall back again a few seconds after its discharge.
It was an important sum, therefore, which the captain risked in his invincible obstinacy.
He had no less than $15,000 at stake.
Notwithstanding the importance of the challenge, on the 19th of May he received a sealed packet containing the following superbly laconic reply:
"BALTIMORE, October 19.
" Done.
" BARBICANE."
CHAPTER XI

FLORIDA AND TEXAS
One question remained yet to be decided;
it was necessary to choose a favorable spot for the experiment.
According to the advice of the Observatory of Cambridge, the gun must be fired perpendicularly to the plane of the horizon, that is to say, toward the zenith.
Now the moon does not traverse the zenith, except in places situated between 0@ and 28@ of latitude.
It became, then, necessary to determine exactly that spot on the globe where the immense Columbiad should be cast.
On the 20th of October, at a general meeting of the Gun Club, Barbicane produced a magnificent map of the United States.

" Gentlemen," said he, in opening the discussion, "I presume that we are all agreed that this experiment cannot and ought not to be tried anywhere but within the limits of the soil of the Union. Now, by good fortune, certain frontiers of the United States extend downward as far as the 28th parallel of the north latitude.
If you will cast your eye over this map, you will see that we have at our disposal the whole of the southern portion of Texas and Florida."

It was finally agreed, then, that the Columbiad must be cast on the soil of either Texas or Florida.
The result, however, of this decision was to create a rivalry entirely without precedent between the different towns of these two States.
The 28th parallel, on reaching the American coast, traverses the peninsula of Florida, dividing it into two nearly equal portions.
Then, plunging into the Gulf of Mexico, it subtends the arc formed by the coast of Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana;
then skirting Texas, off which it cuts an angle, it continues its course over Mexico, crosses the Sonora, Old California, and loses itself in the Pacific Ocean.
It was, therefore, only those portions of Texas and Florida which were situated below this parallel which came within the prescribed conditions of latitude.
Florida, in its southern part, reckons no cities of importance;
it is simply studded with forts raised against the roving Indians.
One solitary town, Tampa Town, was able to put in a claim in favor of its situation.
In Texas, on the contrary, the towns are much more numerous and important. Corpus Christi, in the county of Nueces, and all the cities situated on the Rio Bravo, Laredo, Comalites, San Ignacio on the Web, Rio Grande City on the Starr, Edinburgh in the Hidalgo, Santa Rita, Elpanda, Brownsville in the Cameron, formed an imposing league against the pretensions of Florida.
So, scarcely was the decision known, when the Texan and Floridan deputies arrived at Baltimore in an incredibly short space of time.
From that very moment President Barbicane and the influential members of the Gun Club were besieged day and night by formidable claims.
If seven cities of Greece contended for the honor of having given birth to a Homer, here were two entire States threatening to come to blows about the question of a cannon.
The rival parties promenaded the streets with arms in their hands;
and at every occasion of their meeting a collision was to be apprehended which might have been attended with disastrous results.
Happily the prudence and address of President Barbicane averted the danger.
These personal demonstrations found a division in the newspapers of the different States.
The New York _Herald_ and the _Tribune_ supported Texas, while the _Times_ and the _American Review_ espoused the cause of the Floridan deputies.
The members of the Gun Club could not decide to which to give the preference.
Texas produced its array of twenty-six counties;
Florida replied that twelve counties were better than twenty-six in a country only one-sixth part of the size.
Texas plumed itself upon its 330,000 natives; Florida, with a far smaller territory, boasted of being much more densely populated with 56,000.

The Texans, through the columns of the _Herald_ claimed that some regard should be had to a State which grew the best cotton in all America, produced the best green oak for the service of the navy, and contained the finest oil, besides iron mines, in which the yield was fifty per cent. of pure metal.
To this the _American Review_ replied that the soil of Florida, although not equally rich, afforded the best conditions for the moulding and casting of the Columbiad, consisting as it did of sand and argillaceous earth.
"That may be all very well," replied the Texans; "but you must first get to this country.
Now the communications with Florida are difficult, while the coast of Texas offers the bay of Galveston, which possesses a circumference of fourteen leagues, and is capable of containing the navies of the entire world!"
"A pretty notion truly," replied the papers in the interest of Florida, "that of Galveston bay _below the 29th parallel! _
Have we not got the bay of Espiritu Santo, opening precisely upon _the 28th degree_, and by which ships can reach Tampa Town by direct route?"
"A fine bay; half choked with sand!"
"Choked yourselves!" returned the others.

Thus the war went on for several days, when Florida endeavored to draw her adversary away on to fresh ground; and one morning the _Times_ hinted that, the enterprise being essentially American, it ought not to be attempted upon other than purely American territory.
To these words Texas retorted, "American! are we not as much so as you?
Were not Texas and Florida both incorporated into the Union in 1845?"
"Undoubtedly," replied the _Times_; "but we have belonged to the Americans ever since 1820."
"Yes!" returned the _Tribune_;
"after having been Spaniards or English for two hundred years, you were sold to the United States for five million dollars!"
"Well! and why need we blush for that?
Was not Louisiana bought from Napoleon in 1803 at the price of sixteen million dollars?"
"Scandalous!" roared the Texas deputies.
" A wretched little strip of country like Florida to dare to compare itself to Texas, who, in place of selling herself, asserted her own independence, drove out the Mexicans in March 2, 1846, and declared herself a federal republic after the victory gained by Samuel Houston, on the banks of the San Jacinto, over the troops of Santa Anna! --
a country, in fine, which voluntarily annexed itself to the United States of America!"
"Yes; because it was afraid of the Mexicans!" replied Florida.
"Afraid!"
From this moment the state of things became intolerable.
A sanguinary encounter seemed daily imminent between the two parties in the streets of Baltimore.
It became necessary to keep an eye upon the deputies.
President Barbicane knew not which way to look.
Notes, documents, letters full of menaces showered down upon his house.
Which side ought he to take?
As regarded the appropriation of the soil, the facility of communication, the rapidity of transport, the claims of both States were evenly balanced.
As for political prepossessions, they had nothing to do with the question.
This dead block had existed for some little time, when Barbicane resolved to get rid of it all at once.
He called a meeting of his colleagues, and laid before them a proposition which, it will be seen, was profoundly sagacious.
"On carefully considering," he said, "what is going on now between Florida and Texas, it is clear that the same difficulties will recur with all the towns of the favored State.
The rivalry will descend from State to city, and so on downward.
Now Texas possesses eleven towns within the prescribed conditions, which will further dispute the honor and create us new enemies, while Florida has only one.
I go in, therefore, for Florida and Tampa Town."
This decision, on being made known, utterly crushed the Texan deputies.
Seized with an indescribable fury, they addressed threatening letters to the different members of the Gun Club by name.
The magistrates had but one course to take, and they took it.
They chartered a special train, forced the Texans into it whether they would or no; and they quitted the city with a speed of thirty miles an hour.
Quickly, however, as they were despatched, they found time to hurl one last and bitter sarcasm at their adversaries.
Alluding to the extent of Florida, a mere peninsula confined between two seas, they pretended that it could never sustain the shock of the discharge, and that it would "bust up" at the very first shot.
"Very well, let it bust up!" replied the Floridans, with a brevity of the days of ancient Sparta.
CHAPTER XII

URBI ET ORBI
The astronomical, mechanical, and topographical difficulties resolved, finally came the question of finance.
The sum required was far too great for any individual, or even any single State, to provide the requisite millions.
President Barbicane undertook, despite of the matter being a purely American affair, to render it one of universal interest, and to request the financial co-operation of all peoples.
It was, he maintained, the right and duty of the whole earth to interfere in the affairs of its satellite.
The subscription opened at Baltimore extended properly to the whole world-- _Urbi et orbi_.
This subscription was successful beyond all expectation;
notwithstanding that it was a question not of lending but of giving the money.
It was a purely disinterested operation in the strictest sense of the term, and offered not the slightest chance of profit.
The effect, however, of Barbicane's communication was not confined to the frontiers of the United States;
it crossed the Atlantic and Pacific, invading simultaneously Asia and Europe, Africa and Oceanica.
The observatories of the Union placed themselves in immediate communication with those of foreign countries.
Some, such as those of Paris, Petersburg, Berlin, Stockholm, Hamburg, Malta, Lisbon, Benares, Madras, and others, transmitted their good wishes;
the rest maintained a prudent silence, quietly awaiting the result.
As for the observatory at Greenwich, seconded as it was by the twenty- two astronomical establishments of Great Britain, it spoke plainly enough.
It boldly denied the possibility of success, and pronounced in favor of the theories of Captain Nicholl.

But this was nothing more than mere English jealousy.

On the 8th of October President Barbicane published a manifesto full of enthusiasm, in which he made an appeal to "all persons of good will upon the face of the earth."
This document, translated into all languages, met with immense success.
Subscription lists were opened in all the principal cities of the Union, with a central office at the Baltimore Bank, 9 Baltimore Street.
In addition, subscriptions were received at the following banks in the different states of the two continents:
At Vienna, with S. M. de Rothschild.
At Petersburg, Stieglitz and Co.
At Paris, The Credit Mobilier.
At Stockholm, Tottie and Arfuredson.
At London, N. M. Rothschild and Son.
At Turin, Ardouin and Co.
At Berlin, Mendelssohn.
At Geneva, Lombard, Odier and Co.
At Constantinople, The Ottoman Bank.
At Brussels, J. Lambert.
At Madrid, Daniel Weisweller.
At Amsterdam, Netherlands Credit Co.
At Rome, Torlonia and Co.
At Lisbon, Lecesne.
At Copenhagen, Private Bank.

At Rio de Janeiro, Private Bank.
At Montevideo, Private Bank.
At Valparaiso and Lima, Thomas la Chambre and Co.
At Mexico, Martin Daran and Co.

Three days after the manifesto of President Barbicane $4,000,000 were paid into the different towns of the Union.
With such a balance the Gun Club might begin operations at once.
But some days later advices were received to the effect that foreign subscriptions were being eagerly taken up.
Certain countries distinguished themselves by their liberality;
others untied their purse-strings with less facility--
a matter of temperament.
Figures are, however, more eloquent than words, and here is the official statement of the sums which were paid in to the credit of the Gun Club at the close of the subscription.
Russia paid in as her contingent the enormous sum of 368,733 roubles.
No one need be surprised at this, who bears in mind the scientific taste of the Russians, and the impetus which they have given to astronomical studies--thanks to their numerous observatories.
France began by deriding the pretensions of the Americans.
The moon served as a pretext for a thousand stale puns and a score of ballads, in which bad taste contested the palm with ignorance.
But as formerly the French paid before singing, so now they paid after having had their laugh, and they subscribed for a sum of 1,253,930 francs.
At that price they had a right to enjoy themselves a little.
Austria showed herself generous in the midst of her financial crisis.
Her public contributions amounted to the sum of 216,000 florins-- a perfect godsend.
Fifty-two thousand rix-dollars were the remittance of Sweden and Norway;
the amount is large for the country, but it would undoubtedly have been considerably increased had the subscription been opened in Christiana simultaneously with that at Stockholm.
For some reason or other the Norwegians do not like to send their money to Sweden.
Prussia, by a remittance of 250,000 thalers, testified her high approval of the enterprise.

Turkey behaved generously;
but she had a personal interest in the matter.
The moon, in fact, regulates the cycle of her years and her fast of Ramadan.
She could not do less than give 1,372,640 piastres; and she gave them with an eagerness which denoted, however, some pressure on the part of the government.
Belgium distinguished herself among the second-rate states by a grant of 513,000 francs-- about two centimes per head of her population.
Holland and her colonies interested themselves to the extent of 110,000 florins, only demanding an allowance of five per cent. discount for paying ready money.
Denmark, a little contracted in territory, gave nevertheless 9,000 ducats, proving her love for scientific experiments.
The Germanic Confederation pledged itself to 34,285 florins.
It was impossible to ask for more;
besides, they would not have given it.
Though very much crippled, Italy found 200,000 lire in the pockets of her people.
If she had had Venetia she would have done better;
but she had not.
The States of the Church thought that they could not send less than 7,040 Roman crowns; and Portugal carried her devotion to science as far as 30,000 cruzados.
It was the widow's mite-- eighty-six piastres;
but self-constituted empires are always rather short of money.
Two hundred and fifty-seven francs, this was the modest contribution of Switzerland to the American work.
One must freely admit that she did not see the practical side of the matter.
It did not seem to her that the mere despatch of a shot to the moon could possibly establish any relation of affairs with her; and it did not seem prudent to her to embark her capital in so hazardous an enterprise.
After all, perhaps she was right.
As to Spain, she could not scrape together more than 110 reals.
She gave as an excuse that she had her railways to finish.
The truth is, that science is not favorably regarded in that country, it is still in a backward state;
and moreover, certain Spaniards, not by any means the least educated, did not form a correct estimate of the bulk of the projectile compared with that of the moon.
They feared that it would disturb the established order of things.
In that case it were better to keep aloof;
which they did to the tune of some reals.
There remained but England;
and we know the contemptuous antipathy with which she received Barbicane's proposition.
The English have but one soul for the whole twenty-six millions of inhabitants which Great Britain contains.
They hinted that the enterprise of the Gun Club was contrary to the "principle of non-intervention." And they did not subscribe a single farthing.
At this intimation the Gun Club merely shrugged its shoulders and returned to its great work.
When South America, that is to say, Peru, Chili, Brazil, the provinces of La Plata and Columbia, had poured forth their quota into their hands, the sum of $300,000, it found itself in possession of a considerable capital, of which the following is a statement:
United States subscriptions, .     .
$4,000,000
Foreign subscriptions  .     .     .
$1,446,675
-----------
Total,    .     .     .     .
$5,446,675
Such was the sum which the public poured into the treasury of the Gun Club.
Let no one be surprised at the vastness of the amount.
The work of casting, boring, masonry, the transport of workmen, their establishment in an almost uninhabited country, the construction of furnaces and workshops, the plant, the powder, the projectile, and incipient expenses, would, according to the estimates, absorb nearly the whole.
Certain cannon-shots in the Federal war cost one thousand dollars apiece.
This one of President Barbicane, unique in the annals of gunnery, might well cost five thousand times more.
On the 20th of October a contract was entered into with the manufactory at Coldspring, near New York, which during the war had furnished the largest Parrott, cast-iron guns.
It was stipulated between the contracting parties that the manufactory of Coldspring should engage to transport to Tampa Town, in southern Florida, the necessary materials for casting the Columbiad.
The work was bound to be completed at latest by the 15th of October following, and the cannon delivered in good condition under penalty of a forfeit of one hundred dollars a day to the moment when the moon should again present herself under the same conditions-- that is to say, in eighteen years and eleven days.
The engagement of the workmen, their pay, and all the necessary details of the work, devolved upon the Coldspring Company.
This contract, executed in duplicate, was signed by Barbicane, president of the Gun Club, of the one part, and T. Murchison director of the Coldspring manufactory, of the other, who thus executed the deed on behalf of their respective principals.
CHAPTER XIII

STONES HILL
When the decision was arrived at by the Gun Club, to the disparagement of Texas, every one in America, where reading is a universal acquirement, set to work to study the geography of Florida.
Never before had there been such a sale for works like "Bertram's Travels in Florida," "Roman's Natural History of East and West Florida," "William's Territory of Florida," and "Cleland on the Cultivation of the Sugar-Cane in Florida."
It became necessary to issue fresh editions of these works.

Barbicane had something better to do than to read.
He desired to see things with his own eyes, and to mark the exact position of the proposed gun.
So, without a moment's loss of time, he placed at the disposal of the Cambridge Observatory the funds necessary for the construction of a telescope, and entered into negotiations with the house of Breadwill and Co., of Albany, for the construction of an aluminum projectile of the required size.
He then quitted Baltimore, accompanied by J. T. Maston, Major Elphinstone, and the manager of the Coldspring factory.
On the following day, the four fellow-travelers arrived at New Orleans.
There they immediately embarked on board the _Tampico_, a despatch-boat belonging to the Federal navy, which the government had placed at their disposal; and, getting up steam, the banks of Louisiana speedily disappeared from sight.
The passage was not long.
Two days after starting, the _Tampico_, having made four hundred and eighty miles, came in sight of the coast of Florida.
On a nearer approach Barbicane found himself in view of a low, flat country of somewhat barren aspect.
After coasting along a series of creeks abounding in lobsters and oysters, the _Tampico_ entered the bay of Espiritu Santo, where she finally anchored in a small natural harbor, formed by the _embouchure_ of the River Hillisborough, at seven P.M., on the 22d of October.
Our four passengers disembarked at once.

" Gentlemen," said Barbicane, "we have no time to lose; tomorrow we must obtain horses, and proceed to reconnoiter the country."
Barbicane had scarcely set his foot on shore when three thousand of the inhabitants of Tampa Town came forth to meet him, an honor due to the president who had signalized their country by his choice.

Declining, however, every kind of ovation, Barbicane ensconced himself in a room of the Franklin Hotel.

On the morrow some of the small horses of the Spanish breed, full of vigor and of fire, stood snorting under his windows;
but instead of four steeds, here were fifty, together with their riders.
Barbicane descended with his three fellow- travelers; and much astonished were they all to find themselves in the midst of such a cavalcade.
He remarked that every horseman carried a carbine slung across his shoulders and pistols in his holsters.
On expressing his surprise at these preparations, he was speedily enlightened by a young Floridan, who quietly said:
"Sir, there are Seminoles there."
"What do you mean by Seminoles?"
"Savages who scour the prairies. We thought it best, therefore, to escort you on your road."
"Pooh!" cried J. T. Maston, mounting his steed.
"All right," said the Floridan; "but it is true enough, nevertheless."
"Gentlemen," answered Barbicane, "I thank you for your kind attention; but it is time to be off."

It was five A.M. when Barbicane and his party, quitting Tampa Town, made their way along the coast in the direction of Alifia Creek.
This little river falls into Hillisborough Bay twelve miles above Tampa Town.
Barbicane and his escort coasted along its right bank to the eastward.
Soon the waves of the bay disappeared behind a bend of rising ground, and the Floridan "champagne" alone offered itself to view.

Florida, discovered on Palm Sunday, in 1512, by Juan Ponce de Leon, was originally named _Pascha Florida_.
It little deserved that designation, with its dry and parched coasts.
But after some few miles of tract the nature of the soil gradually changes and the country shows itself worthy of the name.

Cultivated plains soon appear, where are united all the productions of the northern and tropical floras, terminating in prairies abounding with pineapples and yams, tobacco, rice, cotton-plants, and sugar-canes, which extend beyond reach of sight, flinging their riches broadcast with careless prodigality.
Barbicane appeared highly pleased on observing the progressive elevation of the land; and in answer to a question of J. T. Maston, replied:
"My worthy friend, we cannot do better than sink our Columbiad in these high grounds."
"To get nearer the moon, perhaps?" said the secretary of the Gun Club.
"Not exactly," replied Barbicane, smiling;

"do you not see that among these elevated plateaus we shall have a much easier work of it?
No struggles with the water-springs, which will save us long expensive tubings; and we shall be working in daylight instead of down a deep and narrow well.
Our business, then, is to open our trenches upon ground some hundreds of yards above the level of the sea."
"You are right, sir," struck in Murchison, the engineer;

"and, if I mistake not, we shall ere long find a suitable spot for our purpose."
"I wish we were at the first stroke of the pickaxe," said the president.
"And I wish we were at the _last_," cried J. T. Maston.

About ten A.M. the little band had crossed a dozen miles.
To fertile plains succeeded a region of forests.
There perfumes of the most varied kinds mingled together in tropical profusion.
These almost impenetrable forests were composed of pomegranates, orange-trees, citrons, figs, olives, apricots, bananas, huge vines, whose blossoms and fruits rivaled each other in color and perfume.
Beneath the odorous shade of these magnificent trees fluttered and warbled a little world of brilliantly plumaged birds.
J. T. Maston and the major could not repress their admiration on finding themselves in the presence of the glorious beauties of this wealth of nature.
President Barbicane, however, less sensitive to these wonders, was in haste to press forward;
the very luxuriance of the country was displeasing to him.

They hastened onward, therefore, and were compelled to ford several rivers, not without danger, for they were infested with huge alligators from fifteen to eighteen feet long.
Maston courageously menaced them with his steel hook, but he only succeeded in frightening some pelicans and teal, while tall flamingos stared stupidly at the party.
At length these denizens of the swamps disappeared in their turn;
smaller trees became thinly scattered among less dense thickets--
a few isolated groups detached in the midst of endless plains over which ranged herds of startled deer.
"At last," cried Barbicane, rising in his stirrups, "here we are at the region of pines!"
"Yes! and of savages too," replied the major.
In fact, some Seminoles had just came in sight upon the horizon;
they rode violently backward and forward on their fleet horses, brandishing their spears or discharging their guns with a dull report.
These hostile demonstrations, however, had no effect upon Barbicane and his companions.
They were then occupying the center of a rocky plain, which the sun scorched with its parching rays.
This was formed by a considerable elevation of the soil, which seemed to offer to the members of the Gun Club all the conditions requisite for the construction of their Columbiad.
"Halt!" said Barbicane, reining up.
" Has this place any local appellation?"
"It is called Stones Hill," replied one of the Floridans.
Barbicane, without saying a word, dismounted, seized his instruments, and began to note his position with extreme exactness.
The little band, drawn up in the rear, watched his proceedings in profound silence.
At this moment the sun passed the meridian.
Barbicane, after a few moments, rapidly wrote down the result of his observations, and said:
"This spot is situated eighteen hundred feet above the level of the sea, in 27@ 7' N. lat. and 5@ 7' W. long. of the meridian of Washington.

It appears to me by its rocky and barren character to offer all the conditions requisite for our experiment.
On that plain will be raised our magazines, workshops, furnaces, and workmen's huts; and here, from this very spot," said he, stamping his foot on the summit of Stones Hill, "hence shall our projectile take its flight into the regions of the Solar World."
CHAPTER XIV

PICKAXE AND TROWEL
The same evening Barbicane and his companions returned to Tampa Town; and Murchison, the engineer, re-embarked on board the Tampico for New Orleans.
His object was to enlist an army of workmen, and to collect together the greater part of the materials.
The members of the Gun Club remained at Tampa Town, for the purpose of setting on foot the preliminary works by the aid of the people of the country.
Eight days after its departure, the Tampico returned into the bay of Espiritu Santo, with a whole flotilla of steamboats.
Murchison had succeeded in assembling together fifteen hundred artisans.

Attracted by the high pay and considerable bounties offered by the Gun Club, he had enlisted a choice legion of stokers, iron-founders, lime-burners, miners, brickmakers, and artisans of every trade, without distinction of color.
As many of these people brought their families with them, their departure resembled a perfect emigration.
On the 31st of October, at ten o'clock in the morning, the troop disembarked on the quays of Tampa Town;
and one may imagine the activity which pervaded that little town, whose population was thus doubled in a single day.

During the first few days they were busy discharging the cargo brought by the flotilla, the machines, and the rations, as well as a large number of huts constructed of iron plates, separately pieced and numbered.
At the same period Barbicane laid the first sleepers of a railway fifteen miles in length, intended to unite Stones Hill with Tampa Town.

On the first of November Barbicane quitted Tampa Town with a detachment of workmen; and on the following day the whole town of huts was erected round Stones Hill.
This they enclosed with palisades; and in respect of energy and activity, it might have been mistaken for one of the great cities of the Union.
Everything was placed under a complete system of discipline, and the works were commenced in most perfect order.
The nature of the soil having been carefully examined, by means of repeated borings, the work of excavation was fixed for the 4th of November.
On that day Barbicane called together his foremen and addressed them as follows:
"You are well aware, my friends, of the object with which I have assembled you together in this wild part of Florida.
Our business is to construct a cannon measuring nine feet in its interior diameter, six feet thick, and with a stone revetment of nineteen and a half feet in thickness.
We have, therefore, a well of sixty feet in diameter to dig down to a depth of nine hundred feet.
This great work must be completed within eight months, so that you have 2,543,400 cubic feet of earth to excavate in 255 days; that is to say, in round numbers, 2,000 cubic feet per day.
That which would present no difficulty to a thousand navvies working in open country will be of course more troublesome in a comparatively confined space.
However, the thing must be done, and I reckon for its accomplishment upon your courage as much as upon your skill."
At eight o'clock the next morning the first stroke of the pickaxe was struck upon the soil of Florida; and from that moment that prince of tools was never inactive for one moment in the hands of the excavators.
The gangs relieved each other every three hours.

On the 4th of November fifty workmen commenced digging, in the very center of the enclosed space on the summit of Stones Hill, a circular hole sixty feet in diameter.
The pickaxe first struck upon a kind of black earth, six inches in thickness, which was speedily disposed of.
To this earth succeeded two feet of fine sand, which was carefully laid aside as being valuable for serving the casting of the inner mould.
After the sand appeared some compact white clay, resembling the chalk of Great Britain, which extended down to a depth of four feet.
Then the iron of the picks struck upon the hard bed of the soil; a kind of rock formed of petrified shells, very dry, very solid, and which the picks could with difficulty penetrate.
At this point the excavation exhibited a depth of six and a half feet and the work of the masonry was begun.
At the bottom of the excavation they constructed a wheel of oak, a kind of circle strongly bolted together, and of immense strength.
The center of this wooden disc was hollowed out to a diameter equal to the exterior diameter of the Columbiad.
Upon this wheel rested the first layers of the masonry, the stones of which were bound together by hydraulic cement, with irresistible tenacity.
The workmen, after laying the stones from the circumference to the center, were thus enclosed within a kind of well twenty-one feet in diameter.
When this work was accomplished, the miners resumed their picks and cut away the rock from underneath the wheel itself, taking care to support it as they advanced upon blocks of great thickness.
At every two feet which the hole gained in depth they successively withdrew the blocks.
The wheel then sank little by little, and with it the massive ring of masonry, on the upper bed of which the masons labored incessantly, always reserving some vent holes to permit the escape of gas during the operation of the casting.
This kind of work required on the part of the workmen extreme nicety and minute attention.
More than one, in digging underneath the wheel, was dangerously injured by the splinters of stone.
But their ardor never relaxed, night or day.
By day they worked under the rays of the scorching sun; by night, under the gleam of the electric light.
The sounds of the picks against the rock, the bursting of mines, the grinding of the machines, the wreaths of smoke scattered through the air, traced around Stones Hill a circle of terror which the herds of buffaloes and the war parties of the Seminoles never ventured to pass.
Nevertheless, the works advanced regularly, as the steam-cranes actively removed the rubbish.
Of unexpected obstacles there was little account; and with regard to foreseen difficulties, they were speedily disposed of.
At the expiration of the first month the well had attained the depth assigned for that lapse of time, namely, 112 feet.
This depth was doubled in December, and trebled in January.
During the month of February the workmen had to contend with a sheet of water which made its way right across the outer soil.
It became necessary to employ very powerful pumps and compressed-air engines to drain it off, so as to close up the orifice from whence it issued; just as one stops a leak on board ship.
They at last succeeded in getting the upper hand of these untoward streams;
only, in consequence of the loosening of the soil, the wheel partly gave way, and a slight partial settlement ensued.

This accident cost the life of several workmen.

No fresh occurrence thenceforward arrested the progress of the operation; and on the tenth of June, twenty days before the expiration of the period fixed by Barbicane, the well, lined throughout with its facing of stone, had attained the depth of 900 feet.
At the bottom the masonry rested upon a massive block measuring thirty feet in thickness, while on the upper portion it was level with the surrounding soil.
President Barbicane and the members of the Gun Club warmly congratulated their engineer Murchison;
the cyclopean work had been accomplished with extraordinary rapidity.
During these eight months Barbicane never quitted Stones Hill for a single instant.
Keeping ever close by the work of excavation, he busied himself incessantly with the welfare and health of his workpeople, and was singularly fortunate in warding off the epidemics common to large communities of men, and so disastrous in those regions of the globe which are exposed to the influences of tropical climates.
Many workmen, it is true, paid with their lives for the rashness inherent in these dangerous labors;
but these mishaps are impossible to be avoided, and they are classed among the details with which the Americans trouble themselves but little.
They have in fact more regard for human nature in general than for the individual in particular.
Nevertheless, Barbicane professed opposite principles to these, and put them in force at every opportunity.
So, thanks to his care, his intelligence, his useful intervention in all difficulties, his prodigious and humane sagacity, the average of accidents did not exceed that of transatlantic countries, noted for their excessive precautions-- France, for instance, among others, where they reckon about one accident for every two hundred thousand francs of work.
CHAPTER XV

THE FETE OF THE CASTING
During the eight months which were employed in the work of excavation the preparatory works of the casting had been carried on simultaneously with extreme rapidity.
A stranger arriving at Stones Hill would have been surprised at the spectacle offered to his view.
At 600 yards from the well, and circularly arranged around it as a central point, rose 1,200 reverberating ovens, each six feet in diameter, and separated from each other by an interval of three feet.
The circumference occupied by these 1,200 ovens presented a length of two miles.
Being all constructed on the same plan, each with its high quadrangular chimney, they produced a most singular effect.

It will be remembered that on their third meeting the committee had decided to use cast iron for the Columbiad, and in particular the white description.
This metal, in fact, is the most tenacious, the most ductile, and the most malleable, and consequently suitable for all moulding operations; and when smelted with pit coal, is of superior quality for all engineering works requiring great resisting power, such as cannon, steam boilers, hydraulic presses, and the like.
Cast iron, however, if subjected to only one single fusion, is rarely sufficiently homogeneous; and it requires a second fusion completely to refine it by dispossessing it of its last earthly deposits.
So long before being forwarded to Tampa Town, the iron ore, molten in the great furnaces of Coldspring, and brought into contact with coal and silicium heated to a high temperature, was carburized and transformed into cast iron.
After this first operation, the metal was sent on to Stones Hill.
They had, however, to deal with 136,000,000 pounds of iron, a quantity far too costly to send by railway.
The cost of transport would have been double that of material.
It appeared preferable to freight vessels at New York, and to load them with the iron in bars.
This, however, required not less than sixty- eight vessels of 1,000 tons, a veritable fleet, which, quitting New York on the 3rd of May, on the 10th of the same month ascended the Bay of Espiritu Santo, and discharged their cargoes, without dues, in the port at Tampa Town.
Thence the iron was transported by rail to Stones Hill, and about the middle of January this enormous mass of metal was delivered at its destination.
It will easily be understood that 1,200 furnaces were not too many to melt simultaneously these 60,000 tons of iron.
Each of these furnaces contained nearly 140,000 pounds weight of metal.
They were all built after the model of those which served for the casting of the Rodman gun;
they were trapezoidal in shape, with a high elliptical arch.

These furnaces, constructed of fireproof brick, were especially adapted for burning pit coal, with a flat bottom upon which the iron bars were laid.
This bottom, inclined at an angle of 25 degrees, allowed the metal to flow into the receiving troughs;
and the 1,200 converging trenches carried the molten metal down to the central well.
The day following that on which the works of the masonry and boring had been completed, Barbicane set to work upon the central mould.
His object now was to raise within the center of the well, and with a coincident axis, a cylinder 900 feet high, and nine feet in diameter, which should exactly fill up the space reserved for the bore of the Columbiad.
This cylinder was composed of a mixture of clay and sand, with the addition of a little hay and straw.
The space left between the mould and the masonry was intended to be filled up by the molten metal, which would thus form the walls six feet in thickness.
This cylinder, in order to maintain its equilibrium, had to be bound by iron bands, and firmly fixed at certain intervals by cross-clamps fastened into the stone lining;
after the castings these would be buried in the block of metal, leaving no external projection.
This operation was completed on the 8th of July, and the run of the metal was fixed for the following day.
"This _fete_ of the casting will be a grand ceremony," said J. T. Maston to his friend Barbicane.
"Undoubtedly," said Barbicane; "but it will not be a public _fete_"
"What! will you not open the gates of the enclosure to all comers?"
"I must be very careful, Maston.
The casting of the Columbiad is an extremely delicate, not to say a dangerous operation, and I should prefer its being done privately.
At the discharge of the projectile, a _fete_ if you like-- till then, no!"
The president was right.
The operation involved unforeseen dangers, which a great influx of spectators would have hindered him from averting.
It was necessary to preserve complete freedom of movement.
No one was admitted within the enclosure except a delegation of members of the Gun Club, who had made the voyage to Tampa Town.
Among these was the brisk Bilsby, Tom Hunter, Colonel Blomsberry, Major Elphinstone, General Morgan, and the rest of the lot to whom the casting of the Columbiad was a matter of personal interest.
J. T. Maston became their cicerone.
He omitted no point of detail;
he conducted them throughout the magazines, workshops, through the midst of the engines, and compelled them to visit the whole 1,200 furnaces one after the other.
At the end of the twelve-hundredth visit they were pretty well knocked up.
The casting was to take place at twelve o'clock precisely.
The previous evening each furnace had been charged with 114,000 pounds weight of metal in bars disposed cross-ways to each other, so as to allow the hot air to circulate freely between them.
At daybreak the 1,200 chimneys vomited their torrents of flame into the air, and the ground was agitated with dull tremblings.
As many pounds of metal as there were to cast, so many pounds of coal were there to burn.
Thus there were 68,000 tons of coal which projected in the face of the sun a thick curtain of smoke.
The heat soon became insupportable within the circle of furnaces, the rumbling of which resembled the rolling of thunder.
The powerful ventilators added their continuous blasts and saturated with oxygen the glowing plates.
The operation, to be successful, required to be conducted with great rapidity.
On a signal given by a cannon-shot each furnace was to give vent to the molten iron and completely to empty itself.
These arrangements made, foremen and workmen waited the preconcerted moment with an impatience mingled with a certain amount of emotion.
Not a soul remained within the enclosure. Each superintendent took his post by the aperture of the run.
Barbicane and his colleagues, perched on a neighboring eminence, assisted at the operation.
In front of them was a piece of artillery ready to give fire on the signal from the engineer.
Some minutes before midday the first driblets of metal began to flow;
the reservoirs filled little by little; and, by the time that the whole melting was completely accomplished, it was kept in abeyance for a few minutes in order to facilitate the separation of foreign substances.
Twelve o'clock struck!
A gunshot suddenly pealed forth and shot its flame into the air.
Twelve hundred melting-troughs were simultaneously opened and twelve hundred fiery serpents crept toward the central well, unrolling their incandescent curves.
There, down they plunged with a terrific noise into a depth of 900 feet.
It was an exciting and a magnificent spectacle.
The ground trembled, while these molten waves, launching into the sky their wreaths of smoke, evaporated the moisture of the mould and hurled it upward through the vent-holes of the stone lining in the form of dense vapor-clouds.
These artificial clouds unrolled their thick spirals to a height of 1,000 yards into the air.
A savage, wandering somewhere beyond the limits of the horizon, might have believed that some new crater was forming in the bosom of Florida, although there was neither any eruption, nor typhoon, nor storm, nor struggle of the elements, nor any of those terrible phenomena which nature is capable of producing.
No, it was man alone who had produced these reddish vapors, these gigantic flames worthy of a volcano itself, these tremendous vibrations resembling the shock of an earthquake, these reverberations rivaling those of hurricanes and storms; and it was his hand which precipitated into an abyss, dug by himself, a whole Niagara of molten metal!
CHAPTER XVI

THE COLUMBIAD
Had the casting succeeded?
They were reduced to mere conjecture.
There was indeed every reason to expect success, since the mould has absorbed the entire mass of the molten metal;
still some considerable time must elapse before they could arrive at any certainty upon the matter.

The patience of the members of the Gun Club was sorely tried during this period of time.
But they could do nothing.
J. T. Maston escaped roasting by a miracle.
Fifteen days after the casting an immense column of smoke was still rising in the open sky and the ground burned the soles of the feet within a radius of two hundred feet round the summit of Stones Hill.

It was impossible to approach nearer.
All they could do was to wait with what patience they might.
"Here we are at the 10th of August," exclaimed J. T. Maston one morning, "only four months to the 1st of December!

We shall never be ready in time!"

Barbicane said nothing, but his silence covered serious irritation.

However, daily observations revealed a certain change going on in the state of the ground.
About the 15th of August the vapors ejected had sensibly diminished in intensity and thickness.
Some days afterward the earth exhaled only a slight puff of smoke, the last breath of the monster enclosed within its circle of stone.
Little by little the belt of heat contracted, until on the 22nd of August, Barbicane, his colleagues, and the engineer were enabled to set foot on the iron sheet which lay level upon the summit of Stones Hill.
"At last!" exclaimed the president of the Gun Club, with an immense sigh of relief.
The work was resumed the same day.
They proceeded at once to extract the interior mould, for the purpose of clearing out the boring of the piece.
Pickaxes and boring irons were set to work without intermission.
The clayey and sandy soils had acquired extreme hardness under the action of the heat;
but, by the aid of the machines, the rubbish on being dug out was rapidly carted away on railway wagons;
and such was the ardor of the work, so persuasive the arguments of Barbicane's dollars, that by the 3rd of September all traces of the mould had entirely disappeared.
Immediately the operation of boring was commenced;
and by the aid of powerful machines, a few weeks later, the inner surface of the immense tube had been rendered perfectly cylindrical, and the bore of the piece had acquired a thorough polish.
At length, on the 22d of September, less than a twelvemonth after Barbicane's original proposition, the enormous weapon, accurately bored, and exactly vertically pointed, was ready for work.
There was only the moon now to wait for; and they were pretty sure that she would not fail in the rendezvous.
The ecstasy of J. T. Maston knew no bounds, and he narrowly escaped a frightful fall while staring down the tube.
But for the strong hand of Colonel Blomsberry, the worthy secretary, like a modern Erostratus, would have found his death in the depths of the Columbiad.
The cannon was then finished;
there was no possible doubt as to its perfect completion.
So, on the 6th of October, Captain Nicholl opened an account between himself and President Barbicane, in which he debited himself to the latter in the sum of two thousand dollars.
One may believe that the captain's wrath was increased to its highest point, and must have made him seriously ill.
However, he had still three bets of three, four, and five thousand dollars, respectively; and if he gained two out of these, his position would not be very bad.
But the money question did not enter into his calculations; it was the success of his rival in casting a cannon against which iron plates sixty feet thick would have been ineffectual, that dealt him a terrible blow.
After the 23rd of September the enclosure of Stones hill was thrown open to the public; and it will be easily imagined what was the concourse of visitors to this spot!

There was an incessant flow of people to and from Tampa Town and the place, which resembled a procession, or rather, in fact, a pilgrimage.
It was already clear to be seen that, on the day of the experiment itself, the aggregate of spectators would be counted by millions; for they were already arriving from all parts of the earth upon this narrow strip of promontory.
Europe was emigrating to America.
Up to that time, however, it must be confessed, the curiosity of the numerous comers was but scantily gratified.
Most had counted upon witnessing the spectacle of the casting, and they were treated to nothing but smoke.
This was sorry food for hungry eyes;
but Barbicane would admit no one to that operation.
Then ensued grumbling, discontent, murmurs;
they blamed the president, taxed him with dictatorial conduct.
His proceedings were declared "un-American."
There was very nearly a riot round Stones Hill;
but Barbicane remained inflexible.
When, however, the Columbiad was entirely finished, this state of closed doors could no longer be maintained;
besides it would have been bad taste, and even imprudence, to affront the public feeling.
Barbicane, therefore, opened the enclosure to all comers;
but, true to his practical disposition, he determined to coin money out of the public curiosity.
It was something, indeed, to be enabled to contemplate this immense Columbiad; but to descend into its depths, this seemed to the Americans the _ne plus ultra_ of earthly felicity.
Consequently, there was not one curious spectator who was not willing to give himself the treat of visiting the interior of this great metallic abyss.
Baskets suspended from steam-cranes permitted them to satisfy their curiosity.
There was a perfect mania.
Women, children, old men, all made it a point of duty to penetrate the mysteries of the colossal gun.
The fare for the descent was fixed at five dollars per head; and despite this high charge, during the two months which preceded the experiment, the influx of visitors enabled the Gun Club to pocket nearly five hundred thousand dollars!
It is needless to say that the first visitors of the Columbiad were the members of the Gun Club. This privilege was justly reserved for that illustrious body.
The ceremony took place on the 25th of September.
A basket of honor took down the president, J. T. Maston, Major Elphinstone, General Morgan, Colonel Blomsberry, and other members of the club, to the number of ten in all.
How hot it was at the bottom of that long tube of metal!
They were half suffocated.
But what delight!
What ecstasy!
A table had been laid with six covers on the massive stone which formed the bottom of the Columbiad, and lighted by a jet of electric light resembling that of day itself.
Numerous exquisite dishes, which seemed to descend from heaven, were placed successively before the guests, and the richest wines of France flowed in profusion during this splendid repast, served nine hundred feet beneath the surface of the earth!
The festival was animated, not to say somewhat noisy.
Toasts flew backward and forward.
They drank to the earth and to her satellite, to the Gun Club, the Union, the Moon, Diana, Phoebe, Selene, the "peaceful courier of the night!"
All the hurrahs, carried upward upon the sonorous waves of the immense acoustic tube, arrived with the sound of thunder at its mouth; and the multitude ranged round Stones Hill heartily united their shouts with those of the ten revelers hidden from view at the bottom of the gigantic Columbiad.
J. T. Maston was no longer master of himself.
Whether he shouted or gesticulated, ate or drank most, would be a difficult matter to determine.
At all events, he would not have given his place up for an empire, "not even if the cannon-- loaded, primed, and fired at that very moment--were to blow him in pieces into the planetary world."
CHAPTER XVII

A TELEGRAPHIC DISPATCH
The great works undertaken by the Gun Club had now virtually come to an end; and two months still remained before the day for the discharge of the shot to the moon.
To the general impatience these two months appeared as long as years!
Hitherto the smallest details of the operation had been daily chronicled by the journals, which the public devoured with eager eyes.


Just at this moment a circumstance, the most unexpected, the most extraordinary and incredible, occurred to rouse afresh their panting spirits, and to throw every mind into a state of the most violent excitement.
One day, the 30th of September, at 3:47 P.M., a telegram, transmitted by cable from Valentia (Ireland) to Newfoundland and the American Mainland, arrived at the address of President Barbicane.
The president tore open the envelope, read the dispatch, and, despite his remarkable powers of self-control, his lips turned pale and his eyes grew dim, on reading the twenty words of this telegram.
Here is the text of the dispatch, which figures now in the archives of the Gun Club:
FRANCE, PARIS,                                     30 September, 4 A.M.
Barbicane, Tampa Town, Florida, United States.
Substitute for your spherical shell a cylindro-conical projectile.
I shall go inside.
Shall arrive by steamer Atlanta.
MICHEL ARDAN.
CHAPTER XVIII

THE PASSENGER OF THE ATLANTA
If this astounding news, instead of flying through the electric wires, had simply arrived by post in the ordinary sealed envelope, Barbicane would not have hesitated a moment.
He would have held his tongue about it, both as a measure of prudence, and in order not to have to reconsider his plans.
This telegram might be a cover for some jest, especially as it came from a Frenchman.
What human being would ever have conceived the idea of such a journey?
and, if such a person really existed, he must be an idiot, whom one would shut up in a lunatic ward, rather than within the walls of the projectile.
The contents of the dispatch, however, speedily became known; for the telegraphic officials possessed but little discretion, and Michel Ardan's proposition ran at once throughout the several States of the Union.
Barbicane, had, therefore, no further motives for keeping silence.
Consequently, he called together such of his colleagues as were at the moment in Tampa Town, and without any expression of his own opinions simply read to them the laconic text itself.

It was received with every possible variety of expressions of doubt, incredulity, and derision from every one, with the exception of J. T. Maston, who exclaimed, "It is a grand idea, however!"

When Barbicane originally proposed to send a shot to the moon every one looked upon the enterprise as simple and practicable enough-- a mere question of gunnery;
but when a person, professing to be a reasonable being, offered to take passage within the projectile, the whole thing became a farce, or, in plainer language a humbug.

One question, however, remained. Did such a being exist?

This telegram flashed across the depths of the Atlantic, the designation of the vessel on board which he was to take his passage, the date assigned for his speedy arrival, all combined to impart a certain character of reality to the proposal.
They must get some clearer notion of the matter.
Scattered groups of inquirers at length condensed themselves into a compact crowd, which made straight for the residence of President Barbicane.
That worthy individual was keeping quiet with the intention of watching events as they arose.
But he had forgotten to take into account the public impatience; and it was with no pleasant countenance that he watched the population of Tampa Town gathering under his windows.
The murmurs and vociferations below presently obliged him to appear.

He came forward, therefore, and on silence being procured, a citizen put point-blank to him the following question:
"Is the person mentioned in the telegram, under the name of Michel Ardan, on his way here? Yes or no."
"Gentlemen," replied Barbicane, "I know no more than you do."
"We must know," roared the impatient voices.
"Time will show," calmly replied the president.
"Time has no business to keep a whole country in suspense," replied the orator.
" Have you altered the plans of the projectile according to the request of the telegram?"
"Not yet, gentlemen;
but you are right! we must have better information to go by.
The telegraph must complete its information."
"To the telegraph!" roared the crowd.
Barbicane descended; and heading the immense assemblage, led the way to the telegraph office.
A few minutes later a telegram was dispatched to the secretary of the underwriters at Liverpool, requesting answers to the following queries:
"About the ship Atlanta--
when did she leave Europe?
Had she on board a Frenchman named Michel Ardan?"
Two hours afterward Barbicane received information too exact to leave room for the smallest remaining doubt.
"The steamer Atlanta from Liverpool put to sea on the 2nd of October, bound for Tampa Town, having on board a Frenchman borne on the list of passengers by the name of Michel Ardan."

That very evening he wrote to the house of Breadwill and Co., requesting them to suspend the casting of the projectile until the receipt of further orders.

On the 10th of October, at nine A.M., the semaphores of the Bahama Canal signaled a thick smoke on the horizon.
Two hours later a large steamer exchanged signals with them.
the name of the Atlanta flew at once over Tampa Town.
At four o'clock the English vessel entered the Bay of Espiritu Santo.
At five it crossed the passage of Hillisborough Bay at full steam.
At six she cast anchor at Port Tampa.
The anchor had scarcely caught the sandy bottom when five hundred boats surrounded the Atlanta, and the steamer was taken by assault.
Barbicane was the first to set foot on deck, and in a voice of which he vainly tried to conceal the emotion, called "Michel Ardan."
"Here!" replied an individual perched on the poop.
Barbicane, with arms crossed, looked fixedly at the passenger of the Atlanta.
He was a man of about forty-two years of age, of large build, but slightly round-shouldered.
His massive head momentarily shook a shock of reddish hair, which resembled a lion's mane.
His face was short with a broad forehead, and furnished with a moustache as bristly as a cat's, and little patches of yellowish whiskers upon full cheeks. Round, wildish eyes, slightly near-sighted, completed a physiognomy essentially feline.
His nose was firmly shaped, his mouth particularly sweet in expression, high forehead, intelligent and furrowed with wrinkles like a newly-plowed field.
The body was powerfully developed and firmly fixed upon long legs. Muscular arms, and a general air of decision gave him the appearance of a hardy, jolly, companion.

He was dressed in a suit of ample dimensions, loose neckerchief, open shirtcollar, disclosing a robust neck; his cuffs were invariably unbuttoned, through which appeared a pair of red hands.

On the bridge of the steamer, in the midst of the crowd, he bustled to and fro, never still for a moment, "dragging his anchors," as the sailors say, gesticulating, making free with everybody, biting his nails with nervous avidity.
He was one of those originals which nature sometimes invents in the freak of a moment, and of which she then breaks the mould.

Among other peculiarities, this curiosity gave himself out for a sublime ignoramus, "like Shakespeare," and professed supreme contempt for all scientific men.
Those "fellows," as he called them, "are only fit to mark the points, while we play the game."
He was, in fact, a thorough Bohemian, adventurous, but not an adventurer; a hare-brained fellow, a kind of Icarus, only possessing relays of wings.
For the rest, he was ever in scrapes, ending invariably by falling on his feet, like those little figures which they sell for children's toys.
In a few words, his motto was "I have my opinions," and the love of the impossible constituted his ruling passion.

Such was the passenger of the Atlanta, always excitable, as if boiling under the action of some internal fire by the character of his physical organization.
If ever two individuals offered a striking contrast to each other, these were certainly Michel Ardan and the Yankee Barbicane; both, moreover, being equally enterprising and daring, each in his own way.
The scrutiny which the president of the Gun Club had instituted regarding this new rival was quickly interrupted by the shouts and hurrahs of the crowd.
The cries became at last so uproarious, and the popular enthusiasm assumed so personal a form, that Michel Ardan, after having shaken hands some thousands of times, at the imminent risk of leaving his fingers behind him, was fain at last to make a bolt for his cabin.
Barbicane followed him without uttering a word.
"You are Barbicane, I suppose?" said Michel Ardan, in a tone of voice in which he would have addressed a friend of twenty years' standing.
"Yes," replied the president of the Gun Club.
"All right!
how d'ye do, Barbicane?
how are you getting on--
pretty well?
that's right."
"So," said Barbicane without further preliminary, "you are quite determined to go."
"Quite decided."
"Nothing will stop you?"
"Nothing.
Have you modified your projectile according to my telegram."
"I waited for your arrival.
But," asked Barbicane again, "have you carefully reflected?"
"Reflected?
have I any time to spare?
I find an opportunity of making a tour in the moon, and I mean to profit by it.
There is the whole gist of the matter."
Barbicane looked hard at this man who spoke so lightly of his project with such complete absence of anxiety.
" But, at least," said he, "you have some plans, some means of carrying your project into execution?"
"Excellent, my dear Barbicane;
only permit me to offer one remark:
My wish is to tell my story once for all, to everybody, and then have done with it;
then there will be no need for recapitulation.
So, if you have no objection, assemble your friends, colleagues, the whole town, all Florida, all America if you like, and to-morrow I shall be ready to explain my plans and answer any objections whatever that may be advanced.
You may rest assured I shall wait without stirring.
Will that suit you?"
"All right," replied Barbicane.
So saying, the president left the cabin and informed the crowd of the proposal of Michel Ardan.
His words were received with clappings of hands and shouts of joy.
They had removed all difficulties.
To-morrow every one would contemplate at his ease this European hero.
However, some of the spectators, more infatuated than the rest, would not leave the deck of the Atlanta.
They passed the night on board.
Among others J. T. Maston got his hook fixed in the combing of the poop, and it pretty nearly required the capstan to get it out again.
"He is a hero! a hero!" he cried, a theme of which he was never tired of ringing the changes; "and we are only like weak, silly women, compared with this European!"
As to the president, after having suggested to the visitors it was time to retire, he re-entered the passenger's cabin, and remained there till the bell of the steamer made it midnight.
But then the two rivals in popularity shook hands heartily and parted on terms of intimate friendship.
CHAPTER XIX

A MONSTER MEETING
On the following day Barbicane, fearing that indiscreet questions might be put to Michel Ardan, was desirous of reducing the number of the audience to a few of the initiated, his own colleagues for instance.
He might as well have tried to check the Falls of Niagara!
he was compelled, therefore, to give up the idea, and let his new friend run the chances of a public conference.
The place chosen for this monster meeting was a vast plain situated in the rear of the town.
In a few hours, thanks to the help of the shipping in port, an immense roofing of canvas was stretched over the parched prairie, and protected it from the burning rays of the sun.
There three hundred thousand people braved for many hours the stifling heat while awaiting the arrival of the Frenchman.
Of this crowd of spectators a first set could both see and hear;
a second set saw badly and heard nothing at all;
and as for the third, it could neither see nor hear anything at all.

At three o'clock Michel Ardan made his appearance, accompanied by the principal members of the Gun Club.
He was supported on his right by President Barbicane, and on his left by J. T. Maston, more radiant than the midday sun, and nearly as ruddy.
Ardan mounted a platform, from the top of which his view extended over a sea of black hats.
He exhibited not the slightest embarrassment;

he was just as gay, familiar, and pleasant as if he were at home.
To the hurrahs which greeted him he replied by a graceful bow;
then, waving his hands to request silence, he spoke in perfectly correct English as follows:
"Gentlemen, despite the very hot weather I request your patience for a short time while I offer some explanations regarding the projects which seem to have so interested you.
I am neither an orator nor a man of science, and I had no idea of addressing you in public;
but my friend Barbicane has told me that you would like to hear me, and I am quite at your service.
Listen to me, therefore, with your six hundred thousand ears, and please excuse the faults of the speaker.

Now pray do not forget that you see before you a perfect ignoramus whose ignorance goes so far that he cannot even understand the difficulties!
It seemed to him that it was a matter quite simple, natural, and easy to take one's place in a projectile and start for the moon!
That journey must be undertaken sooner or later; and, as for the mode of locomotion adopted, it follows simply the law of progress.
Man began by walking on all-fours; then, one fine day, on two feet; then in a carriage; then in a stage-coach; and lastly by railway.
Well, the projectile is the vehicle of the future, and the planets themselves are nothing else!

Now some of you, gentlemen, may imagine that the velocity we propose to impart to it is extravagant.
It is nothing of the kind.
All the stars exceed it in rapidity, and the earth herself is at this moment carrying us round the sun at three times as rapid a rate, and yet she is a mere lounger on the way compared with many others of the planets! And her velocity is constantly decreasing.
Is it not evident, then, I ask you, that there will some day appear velocities far greater than these, of which light or electricity will probably be the mechanical agent?

"Yes, gentlemen," continued the orator, "in spite of the opinions of certain narrow-minded people, who would shut up the human race upon this globe, as within some magic circle which it must never outstep, we shall one day travel to the moon, the planets, and the stars, with the same facility, rapidity, and certainty as we now make the voyage from Liverpool to New York!
Distance is but a relative expression, and must end by being reduced to zero."
The assembly, strongly predisposed as they were in favor of the French hero, were slightly staggered at this bold theory.
Michel Ardan perceived the fact.
"Gentlemen," he continued with a pleasant smile, "you do not seem quite convinced.
Very good!
Let us reason the matter out.
Do you know how long it would take for an express train to reach the moon?
Three hundred days;
no more!
And what is that?
The distance is no more than nine times the circumference of the earth; and there are no sailors or travelers, of even moderate activity, who have not made longer journeys than that in their lifetime.
And now consider that I shall be only ninety- seven hours on my journey.
Ah!
I see you are reckoning that the moon is a long way off from the earth, and that one must think twice before making the experiment.
What would you say, then, if we were talking of going to Neptune, which revolves at a distance of more than two thousand seven hundred and twenty millions of miles from the sun!

And yet what is that compared with the distance of the fixed stars, some of which, such as Arcturus, are billions of miles distant from us?
And then you talk of the distance which separates the planets from the sun!
And there are people who affirm that such a thing as distance exists.
Absurdity, folly, idiotic nonsense!
Would you know what I think of our own solar universe?
Shall I tell you my theory?
It is very simple!
In my opinion the solar system is a solid homogeneous body;
the planets which compose it are in actual contact with each other; and whatever space exists between them is nothing more than the space which separates the molecules of the densest metal, such as silver, iron, or platinum!
I have the right, therefore, to affirm, and I repeat, with the conviction which must penetrate all your minds, `Distance is but an empty name; distance does not really exist!'"
"Hurrah!" cried one voice (need it be said it was that of J. T. Maston).  " Distance does not exist!"
And overcome by the energy of his movements, he nearly fell from the platform to the ground.
He just escaped a severe fall, which would have proved to him that distance was by no means an empty name.


"Gentlemen," resumed the orator, "I repeat that the distance between the earth and her satellite is a mere trifle, and undeserving of serious consideration.
I am convinced that before twenty years are over one-half of our earth will have paid a visit to the moon.

Now, my worthy friends, if you have any question to put to me, you will, I fear, sadly embarrass a poor man like myself; still I will do my best to answer you."
Up to this point the president of the Gun Club had been satisfied with the turn which the discussion had assumed.

It became now, however, desirable to divert Ardan from questions of a practical nature, with which he was doubtless far less conversant.
Barbicane, therefore, hastened to get in a word, and began by asking his new friend whether he thought that the moon and the planets were inhabited.
"You put before me a great problem, my worthy president," replied the orator, smiling.
" Still, men of great intelligence, such as Plutarch, Swedenborg, Bernardin de St. Pierre, and others have, if I mistake not, pronounced in the affirmative.
Looking at the question from the natural philosopher's point of view, I should say that nothing useless existed in the world; and, replying to your question by another, I should venture to assert, that if these worlds are habitable, they either are, have been, or will be inhabited."

"No one could answer more logically or fairly," replied the president.
" The question then reverts to this:
Are these worlds habitable?
For my own part I believe they are."
"For myself, I feel certain of it," said Michel Ardan.
"Nevertheless," retorted one of the audience, "there are many arguments against the habitability of the worlds.
The conditions of life must evidently be greatly modified upon the majority of them.
To mention only the planets, we should be either broiled alive in some, or frozen to death in others, according as they are more or less removed from the sun."
"I regret," replied Michel Ardan, "that I have not the honor of personally knowing my contradictor, for I would have attempted to answer him.
His objection has its merits, I admit; but I think we may successfully combat it, as well as all others which affect the habitability of other worlds.
If I were a natural philosopher, I would tell him that if less of caloric were set in motion upon the planets which are nearest to the sun, and more, on the contrary, upon those which are farthest removed from it, this simple fact would alone suffice to equalize the heat, and to render the temperature of those worlds supportable by beings organized like ourselves.
If I were a naturalist, I would tell him that, according to some illustrious men of science, nature has furnished us with instances upon the earth of animals existing under very varying conditions of life; that fish respire in a medium fatal to other animals; that amphibious creatures possess a double existence very difficult of explanation; that certain denizens of the seas maintain life at enormous depths, and there support a pressure equal to that of fifty or sixty atmospheres without being crushed; that several aquatic insects, insensible to temperature, are met with equally among boiling springs and in the frozen plains of the Polar Sea; in fine, that we cannot help recognizing in nature a diversity of means of operation oftentimes incomprehensible, but not the less real.
If I were a chemist, I would tell him that the aerolites, bodies evidently formed exteriorly of our terrestrial globe, have, upon analysis, revealed indisputable traces of carbon, a substance which owes its origin solely to organized beings, and which, according to the experiments of Reichenbach, must necessarily itself have been endued with animation.
And lastly, were I a theologian, I would tell him that the scheme of the Divine Redemption, according to St. Paul, seems to be applicable, not merely to the earth, but to all the celestial worlds.
But, unfortunately, I am neither theologian, nor chemist, nor naturalist, nor philosopher;
therefore, in my absolute ignorance of the great laws which govern the universe, I confine myself to saying in reply, `I do not know whether the worlds are inhabited or not:  and since I do not know, I am going to see!'"
Whether Michel Ardan's antagonist hazarded any further arguments or not it is impossible to say, for the uproarious shouts of the crowd would not allow any expression of opinion to gain a hearing.
On silence being restored, the triumphant orator contented himself with adding the following remarks:
"Gentlemen, you will observe that I have but slightly touched upon this great question.

There is another altogether different line of argument in favor of the habitability of the stars, which I omit for the present.
I only desire to call attention to one point.
To those who maintain that the planets are _not_ inhabited one may reply:
You might be perfectly in the right, if you could only show that the earth is the best possible world, in spite of what Voltaire has said.
She has but _one_ satellite, while Jupiter, Uranus, Saturn, Neptune have each several, an advantage by no means to be despised.
But that which renders our own globe so uncomfortable is the inclination of its axis to the plane of its orbit.
Hence the inequality of days and nights;
hence the disagreeable diversity of the seasons.
On the surface of our unhappy spheroid we are always either too hot or too cold;
we are frozen in winter, broiled in summer;
it is the planet of rheumatism, coughs, bronchitis; while on the surface of Jupiter, for example, where the axis is but slightly inclined, the inhabitants may enjoy uniform temperatures.
It possesses zones of perpetual springs, summers, autumns, and winters;
every Jovian may choose for himself what climate he likes, and there spend the whole of his life in security from all variations of temperature.
You will, I am sure, readily admit this superiority of Jupiter over our own planet, to say nothing of his years, which each equal twelve of ours!
Under such auspices and such marvelous conditions of existence, it appears to me that the inhabitants of so fortunate a world must be in every respect superior to ourselves.
All we require, in order to attain such perfection, is the mere trifle of having an axis of rotation less inclined to the plane of its orbit!"
"Hurrah!" roared an energetic voice, "let us unite our efforts, invent the necessary machines, and rectify the earth's axis!"
A thunder of applause followed this proposal, the author of which was, of course, no other than J. T. Maston.

And, in all probability, if the truth must be told, if the Yankees could only have found a point of application for it, they would have constructed a lever capable of raising the earth and rectifying its axis.
It was just this deficiency which baffled these daring mechanicians.

CHAPTER XX

ATTACK AND RIPOSTE

As soon as the excitement had subsided, the following words were heard uttered in a strong and determined voice:
"Now that the speaker has favored us with so much imagination, would he be so good as to return to his subject, and give us a little practical view of the question?"
All eyes were directed toward the person who spoke.
He was a little dried-up man, of an active figure, with an American "goatee" beard.
Profiting by the different movements in the crowd, he had managed by degrees to gain the front row of spectators.
There, with arms crossed and stern gaze, he watched the hero of the meeting.
After having put his question he remained silent, and appeared to take no notice of the thousands of looks directed toward himself, nor of the murmur of disapprobation excited by his words.
Meeting at first with no reply, he repeated his question with marked emphasis, adding, "We are here to talk about the _moon_ and not about the _earth_."
"You are right, sir," replied Michel Ardan; "the discussion has become irregular.
We will return to the moon."
"Sir," said the unknown, "you pretend that our satellite is inhabited.
Very good, but if Selenites do exist, that race of beings assuredly must live without breathing, for-- I warn you for your own sake-- there is not the smallest particle of air on the surface of the moon."
At this remark Ardan pushed up his shock of red hair;
he saw that he was on the point of being involved in a struggle with this person upon the very gist of the whole question.
He looked sternly at him in his turn and said:
"Oh!
so there is no air in the moon?
And pray, if you are so good, who ventures to affirm that?
"The men of science."
"Really?"
"Really."
"Sir," replied Michel, "pleasantry apart, I have a profound respect for men of science who do possess science, but a profound contempt for men of science who do not."
"Do you know any who belong to the latter category?"
"Decidedly.
In France there are some who maintain that, mathematically, a bird cannot possibly fly; and others who demonstrate theoretically that fishes were never made to live in water."
"I have nothing to do with persons of that description, and I can quote, in support of my statement, names which you cannot refuse deference to."
"Then, sir, you will sadly embarrass a poor ignorant, who, besides, asks nothing better than to learn."
"Why, then, do you introduce scientific questions if you have never studied them?" asked the unknown somewhat coarsely.

"For the reason that `he is always brave who never suspects danger.'
I know nothing, it is true; but it is precisely my very weakness which constitutes my strength."
"Your weakness amounts to folly," retorted the unknown in a passion.
"All the better," replied our Frenchman, "if it carries me up to the moon."
Barbicane and his colleagues devoured with their eyes the intruder who had so boldly placed himself in antagonism to their enterprise.
Nobody knew him, and the president, uneasy as to the result of so free a discussion, watched his new friend with some anxiety.
The meeting began to be somewhat fidgety also, for the contest directed their attention to the dangers, if not the actual impossibilities, of the proposed expedition.
"Sir," replied Ardan's antagonist, "there are many and incontrovertible reasons which prove the absence of an atmosphere in the moon.
I might say that, _a priori_, if one ever did exist, it must have been absorbed by the earth;
but I prefer to bring forward indisputable facts."
"Bring them forward then, sir, as many as you please."
"You know," said the stranger, "that when any luminous rays cross a medium such as the air, they are deflected out of the straight line; in other words, they undergo refraction.
Well!
When stars are occulted by the moon, their rays, on grazing the edge of her disc, exhibit not the least deviation, nor offer the slightest indication of refraction.
It follows, therefore, that the moon cannot be surrounded by an atmosphere.

"In point of fact," replied Ardan, "this is your chief, if not your _only_ argument; and a really scientific man might be puzzled to answer it.
For myself, I will simply say that it is defective, because it assumes that the angular diameter of the moon has been completely determined, which is not the case.
But let us proceed. Tell me, my dear sir, do you admit the existence of volcanoes on the moon's surface?"
"Extinct, yes!
In activity, no!"
"These volcanoes, however, were at one time in a state of activity?"
"True, but, as they furnish themselves the oxygen necessary for combustion, the mere fact of their eruption does not prove the presence of an atmosphere."
"Proceed again, then; and let us set aside this class of arguments in order to come to direct observations.

In 1715 the astronomers Louville and Halley, watching the eclipse of the 3rd of May, remarked some very extraordinary scintillations.
These jets of light, rapid in nature, and of frequent recurrence, they attributed to thunderstorms generated in the lunar atmosphere."
"In 1715," replied the unknown, "the astronomers Louville and Halley mistook for lunar phenomena some which were purely terrestrial, such as meteoric or other bodies which are generated in our own atmosphere.
This was the scientific explanation at the time of the facts; and that is my answer now."
"On again, then," replied Ardan;
"Herschel, in 1787, observed a great number of luminous points on the moon's surface, did he not?"
"Yes! but without offering any solution of them. Herschel himself never inferred from them the necessity of a lunar atmosphere.

And I may add that Baeer and Maedler, the two great authorities upon the moon, are quite agreed as to the entire absence of air on its surface."
A movement was here manifest among the assemblage, who appeared to be growing excited by the arguments of this singular personage.
"Let us proceed," replied Ardan, with perfect coolness, "and come to one important fact.
A skillful French astronomer, M. Laussedat, in watching the eclipse of July 18, 1860, probed that the horns of the lunar crescent were rounded and truncated.
Now, this appearance could only have been produced by a deviation of the solar rays in traversing the atmosphere of the moon. There is no other possible explanation of the facts."
"But is this established as a fact?"
"Absolutely certain!"
A counter-movement here took place in favor of the hero of the meeting, whose opponent was now reduced to silence.
Ardan resumed the conversation; and without exhibiting any exultation at the advantage he had gained, simply said:
"You see, then, my dear sir, we must not pronounce with absolute positiveness against the existence of an atmosphere in the moon.
That atmosphere is, probably, of extreme rarity; nevertheless at the present day science generally admits that it exists."
"Not in the mountains, at all events," returned the unknown, unwilling to give in.
"No! but at the bottom of the valleys, and not exceeding a few hundred feet in height."
"In any case you will do well to take every precaution, for the air will be terribly rarified."
"My good sir, there will always be enough for a solitary individual;
besides, once arrived up there, I shall do my best to economize, and not to breathe except on grand occasions!"
A tremendous roar of laughter rang in the ears of the mysterious interlocutor, who glared fiercely round upon the assembly.
"Then," continued Ardan, with a careless air, "since we are in accord regarding the presence of a certain atmosphere, we are forced to admit the presence of a certain quantity of water.
This is a happy consequence for me.
Moreover, my amiable contradictor, permit me to submit to you one further observation.
We only know _one_ side of the moon's disc; and if there is but little air on the face presented to us, it is possible that there is plenty on the one turned away from us."
"And for what reason?"
"Because the moon, under the action of the earth's attraction, has assumed the form of an egg, which we look at from the smaller end.
Hence it follows, by Hausen's calculations, that its center of gravity is situated in the other hemisphere.
Hence it results that the great mass of air and water must have been drawn away to the other face of our satellite during the first days of its creation."
"Pure fancies!" cried the unknown.
"No!
Pure theories! which are based upon the laws of mechanics, and it seems difficult to me to refute them.
I appeal then to this meeting, and I put it to them whether life, such as exists upon the earth, is possible on the surface of the moon?"
Three hundred thousand auditors at once applauded the proposition.
Ardan's opponent tried to get in another word, but he could not obtain a hearing.
Cries and menaces fell upon him like hail.
"Enough!
enough!" cried some.
"Drive the intruder off!" shouted others.
"Turn him out!" roared the exasperated crowd.
But he, holding firmly on to the platform, did not budge an inch, and let the storm pass on, which would soon have assumed formidable proportions, if Michel Ardan had not quieted it by a gesture.
He was too chivalrous to abandon his opponent in an apparent extremity.
"You wished to say a few more words?" he asked, in a pleasant voice.
"Yes, a thousand;
or rather, no, only one!
If you persevere in your enterprise, you must be a----"
"Very rash person!
How can you treat me as such? me, who have demanded a cylindro-conical projectile, in order to prevent turning round and round on my way like a squirrel?"
"But, unhappy man, the dreadful recoil will smash you to pieces at your starting."
"My dear contradictor, you have just put your finger upon the true and only difficulty;
nevertheless, I have too good an opinion of the industrial genius of the Americans not to believe that they will succeed in overcoming it."
"But the heat developed by the rapidity of the projectile in crossing the strata of air?"
"Oh!
the walls are thick, and I shall soon have crossed the atmosphere."
"But victuals and water?"
"I have calculated for a twelvemonth's supply, and I shall be only four days on the journey."
"But for air to breathe on the road?"
"I shall make it by a chemical process."
"But your fall on the moon, supposing you ever reach it?"
"It will be six times less dangerous than a sudden fall upon the earth, because the weight will be only one-sixth as great on the surface of the moon."
"Still it will be enough to smash you like glass!"
"What is to prevent my retarding the shock by means of rockets conveniently placed, and lighted at the right moment?"
"But after all, supposing all difficulties surmounted, all obstacles removed, supposing everything combined to favor you, and granting that you may arrive safe and sound in the moon, how will you come back?"
"I am not coming back!"
At this reply, almost sublime in its very simplicity, the assembly became silent. But its silence was more eloquent than could have been its cries of enthusiasm.
The unknown profited by the opportunity and once more protested:
"You will inevitably kill yourself!" he cried; "and your death will be that of a madman, useless even to science!"
"Go on, my dear unknown, for truly your prophecies are most agreeable!"
"It really is too much!" cried Michel Ardan's adversary.  " I do not know why I should continue so frivolous a discussion!
Please yourself about this insane expedition!
We need not trouble ourselves about you!"
"Pray don't stand upon ceremony!"
"No!
another person is responsible for your act."
"Who, may I ask?" demanded Michel Ardan in an imperious tone.
"The ignoramus who organized this equally absurd and impossible experiment!"
The attack was direct.
Barbicane, ever since the interference of the unknown, had been making fearful efforts of self-control;
now, however, seeing himself directly attacked, he could restrain himself no longer. He rose suddenly, and was rushing upon the enemy who thus braved him to the face, when all at once he found himself separated from him.
The platform was lifted by a hundred strong arms, and the president of the Gun Club shared with Michel Ardan triumphal honors.
The shield was heavy, but the bearers came in continuous relays, disputing, struggling, even fighting among themselves in their eagerness to lend their shoulders to this demonstration.
However, the unknown had not profited by the tumult to quit his post.
Besides he could not have done it in the midst of that compact crowd.
There he held on in the front row with crossed arms, glaring at President Barbicane.

The shouts of the immense crowd continued at their highest pitch throughout this triumphant march.
Michel Ardan took it all with evident pleasure.
His face gleamed with delight.
Several times the platform seemed seized with pitching and rolling like a weatherbeaten ship.
But the two heros of the meeting had good sea-legs.
They never stumbled; and their vessel arrived without dues at the port of Tampa Town.
Michel Ardan managed fortunately to escape from the last embraces of his vigorous admirers.
He made for the Hotel Franklin, quickly gained his chamber, and slid under the bedclothes, while an army of a hundred thousand men kept watch under his windows.
During this time a scene, short, grave, and decisive, took place between the mysterious personage and the president of the Gun Club.
Barbicane, free at last, had gone straight at his adversary.
"Come!" he said shortly.
The other followed him on the quay; and the two presently found themselves alone at the entrance of an open wharf on Jones' Fall.
The two enemies, still mutually unknown, gazed at each other.
"Who are you?" asked Barbicane.
"Captain Nicholl!"
"So I suspected.
Hitherto chance has never thrown you in my way."
"I am come for that purpose."
"You have insulted me."
"Publicly!"
"And you will answer to me for this insult?"
"At this very moment."
"No!
I desire that all that passes between us shall be secret.
Their is a wood situated three miles from Tampa, the wood of Skersnaw.
Do you know it?"
"I know it."
"Will you be so good as to enter it to-morrow morning at five o'clock, on one side?"
"Yes! if you will enter at the other side at the same hour."
"And you will not forget your rifle?" said Barbicane.
"No more than you will forget yours?" replied Nicholl.
These words having been coldly spoken, the president of the Gun Club and the captain parted.
Barbicane returned to his lodging; but instead of snatching a few hours of repose, he passed the night in endeavoring to discover a means of evading the recoil of the projectile, and resolving the difficult problem proposed by Michel Ardan during the discussion at the meeting.
CHAPTER XXI

HOW A FRENCHMAN MANAGES AN AFFAIR
While the contract of this duel was being discussed by the president and the captain-- this dreadful, savage duel, in which each adversary became a man-hunter-- Michel Ardan was resting from the fatigues of his triumph.
Resting is hardly an appropriate expression, for American beds rival marble or granite tables for hardness.
Ardan was sleeping, then, badly enough, tossing about between the cloths which served him for sheets, and he was dreaming of making a more comfortable couch in his projectile when a frightful noise disturbed his dreams.
Thundering blows shook his door.
They seemed to be caused by some iron instrument.
A great deal of loud talking was distinguishable in this racket, which was rather too early in the morning.
" Open the door," some one shrieked, "for heaven's sake!"
Ardan saw no reason for complying with a demand so roughly expressed.
However, he got up and opened the door just as it was giving way before the blows of this determined visitor.
The secretary of the Gun Club burst into the room.
A bomb could not have made more noise or have entered the room with less ceremony.
"Last night," cried J. T. Maston, _ex abrupto_, "our president was publicly insulted during the meeting.
He provoked his adversary, who is none other than Captain Nicholl!
They are fighting this morning in the wood of Skersnaw.
I heard all the particulars from the mouth of Barbicane himself.
If he is killed, then our scheme is at an end.
We must prevent his duel;
and one man alone has enough influence over Barbicane to stop him, and that man is Michel Ardan."
While J. T. Maston was speaking, Michel Ardan, without interrupting him, had hastily put on his clothes; and, in less than two minutes, the two friends were making for the suburbs of Tampa Town with rapid strides.
It was during this walk that Maston told Ardan the state of the case.
He told him the real causes of the hostility between Barbicane and Nicholl; how it was of old date, and why, thanks to unknown friends, the president and the captain had, as yet, never met face to face.
He added that it arose simply from a rivalry between iron plates and shot, and, finally, that the scene at the meeting was only the long-wished-for opportunity for Nicholl to pay off an old grudge.
Nothing is more dreadful than private duels in America. The two adversaries attack each other like wild beasts.
Then it is that they might well covet those wonderful properties of the Indians of the prairies-- their quick intelligence, their ingenious cunning, their scent of the enemy.
A single mistake, a moment's hesitation, a single false step may cause death.
On these occasions Yankees are often accompanied by their dogs, and keep up the struggle for hours.
"What demons you are!" cried Michel Ardan, when his companion had depicted this scene to him with much energy.
"Yes, we are," replied J. T. modestly;
"but we had better make haste."
Though Michel Ardan and he had crossed the plains still wet with dew, and had taken the shortest route over creeks and ricefields, they could not reach Skersnaw in under five hours and a half.
Barbicane must have passed the border half an hour ago.
There was an old bushman working there, occupied in selling fagots from trees that had been leveled by his axe.
Maston ran toward him, saying, "Have you seen a man go into the wood, armed with a rifle? Barbicane, the president, my best friend?"
The worthy secretary of the Gun Club thought that his president must be known by all the world.
But the bushman did not seem to understand him.
"A hunter?" said Ardan.
"A hunter?
Yes," replied the bushman.
"Long ago?"
"About an hour."
"Too late!" cried Maston.
"Have you heard any gunshots?" asked Ardan.
"No!"
"Not one?"
"Not one!
that hunter did not look as if he knew how to hunt!"
"What is to be done?" said Maston.
"We must go into the wood, at the risk of getting a ball which is not intended for us."
"Ah!" cried Maston, in a tone which could not be mistaken, "I would rather have twenty balls in my own head than one in Barbicane's."
"Forward, then," said Ardan, pressing his companion's hand.
A few moments later the two friends had disappeared in the copse.
It was a dense thicket, in which rose huge cypresses, sycamores, tulip-trees, olives, tamarinds, oaks, and magnolias.
These different trees had interwoven their branches into an inextricable maze, through which the eye could not penetrate.
Michel Ardan and Maston walked side by side in silence through the tall grass, cutting themselves a path through the strong creepers, casting curious glances on the bushes, and momentarily expecting to hear the sound of rifles.
As for the traces which Barbicane ought to have left of his passage through the wood, there was not a vestige of them visible: so they followed the barely perceptible paths along which Indians had tracked some enemy, and which the dense foliage darkly overshadowed.
After an hour spent in vain pursuit the two stopped in intensified anxiety.
"It must be all over," said Maston, discouraged.
" A man like Barbicane would not dodge with his enemy, or ensnare him, would not even maneuver!
He is too open, too brave.
He has gone straight ahead, right into the danger, and doubtless far enough from the bushman for the wind to prevent his hearing the report of the rifles."
"But surely," replied Michel Ardan, "since we entered the wood we should have heard!"
"And what if we came too late?" cried Maston in tones of despair.
For once Ardan had no reply to make, he and Maston resuming their walk in silence.
From time to time, indeed, they raised great shouts, calling alternately Barbicane and Nicholl, neither of whom, however, answered their cries.
Only the birds, awakened by the sound, flew past them and disappeared among the branches, while some frightened deer fled precipitately before them.
For another hour their search was continued.
The greater part of the wood had been explored.
There was nothing to reveal the presence of the combatants.
The information of the bushman was after all doubtful, and Ardan was about to propose their abandoning this useless pursuit, when all at once Maston stopped.
"Hush!" said he, "there is some one down there!"
"Some one?" repeated Michel Ardan.
"Yes;
a man!
He seems motionless.
His rifle is not in his hands.
What can he be doing?"
"But can you recognize him?" asked Ardan, whose short sight was of little use to him in such circumstances.
"Yes!
yes! He is turning toward us," answered Maston.
"And it is?"
"Captain Nicholl!"
"Nicholl?" cried Michel Ardan, feeling a terrible pang of grief.
"Nicholl unarmed!
He has, then, no longer any fear of his adversary!"
"Let us go to him," said Michel Ardan, "and find out the truth."
But he and his companion had barely taken fifty steps, when they paused to examine the captain more attentively.
They expected to find a bloodthirsty man, happy in his revenge.
On seeing him, they remained stupefied.
A net, composed of very fine meshes, hung between two enormous tulip-trees, and in the midst of this snare, with its wings entangled, was a poor little bird, uttering pitiful cries, while it vainly struggled to escape.
The bird-catcher who had laid this snare was no human being, but a venomous spider, peculiar to that country, as large as a pigeon's egg, and armed with enormous claws.
The hideous creature, instead of rushing on its prey, had beaten a sudden retreat and taken refuge in the upper branches of the tulip-tree, for a formidable enemy menaced its stronghold.
Here, then, was Nicholl, his gun on the ground, forgetful of danger, trying if possible to save the victim from its cobweb prison.
At last it was accomplished, and the little bird flew joyfully away and disappeared.
Nicholl lovingly watched its flight, when he heard these words pronounced by a voice full of emotion:
"You are indeed a brave man."
He turned.
Michel Ardan was before him, repeating in a different tone:
"And a kindhearted one!"
"Michel Ardan!" cried the captain.
" Why are you here?"
"To press your hand, Nicholl, and to prevent you from either killing Barbicane or being killed by him."
"Barbicane!" returned the captain.  " I have been looking for him for the last two hours in vain.
Where is he hiding?"
"Nicholl!" said Michel Ardan, "this is not courteous!
we ought always to treat an adversary with respect;
rest assureed if Barbicane is still alive we shall find him all the more easily; because if he has not, like you, been amusing himself with freeing oppressed birds, he must be looking for _you_.
When we have found him, Michel Ardan tells you this, there will be no duel between you."
"Between President Barbicane and myself," gravely replied Nicholl, "there is a rivalry which the death of one of us----"
"Pooh, pooh!" said Ardan.  " Brave fellows like you indeed!
you shall not fight!"
"I will fight, sir!"
"No!"
"Captain," said J. T. Maston, with much feeling, "I am a friend of the president's, his _alter ego_, his second self;
if you really must kill some one, _shoot me! _ it will do just as well!"
"Sir," Nicholl replied, seizing his rifle convulsively, "these jokes----"
"Our friend Maston is not joking," replied Ardan.  " I fully understand his idea of being killed himself in order to save his friend.
But neither he nor Barbicane will fall before the balls of Captain Nicholl. Indeed I have so attractive a proposal to make to the two rivals, that both will be eager to accept it."
"What is it?" asked Nicholl with manifest incredulity.
"Patience!" exclaimed Ardan.  " I can only reveal it in the presence of Barbicane."
"Let us go in search of him then!" cried the captain.
The three men started off at once;
the captain having discharged his rifle threw it over his shoulder, and advanced in silence.
Another half hour passed, and the pursuit was still fruitless.
Maston was oppressed by sinister forebodings.
He looked fiercely at Nicholl, asking himself whether the captain's vengeance had already been satisfied, and the unfortunate Barbicane, shot, was perhaps lying dead on some bloody track.
The same thought seemed to occur to Ardan; and both were casting inquiring glances on Nicholl, when suddenly Maston paused.
The motionless figure of a man leaning against a gigantic catalpa twenty feet off appeared, half-veiled by the foliage.
"It is he!" said Maston.
Barbicane never moved.
Ardan looked at the captain, but he did not wince.
Ardan went forward crying:
"Barbicane!
Barbicane!"
No answer!
Ardan rushed toward his friend;
but in the act of seizing his arms, he stopped short and uttered a cry of surprise.
Barbicane, pencil in hand, was tracing geometrical figures in a memorandum book, while his unloaded rifle lay beside him on the ground.
Absorbed in his studies, Barbicane, in his turn forgetful of the duel, had seen and heard nothing.
When Ardan took his hand, he looked up and stared at his visitor in astonishment.
"Ah, it is you!" he cried at last.
" I have found it, my friend, I have found it!"
"What?"
"My plan!"
"What plan?"
"The plan for countering the effect of the shock at the departure of the projectile!"
"Indeed?" said Michel Ardan, looking at the captain out of the corner of his eye.
"Yes!
water!
simply water, which will act as a spring--
ah!
Maston," cried Barbicane, "you here also?"
"Himself," replied Ardan; "and permit me to introduce to you at the same time the worthy Captain Nicholl!"
"Nicholl!" cried Barbicane, who jumped up at once.
" Pardon me, captain, I had quite forgotten--
I am ready!"
Michel Ardan interfered, without giving the two enemies time to say anything more.
"Thank heaven!" said he.  " It is a happy thing that brave men like you two did not meet sooner!
we should now have been mourning for one or other of you.
But, thanks to Providence, which has interfered, there is now no further cause for alarm.
When one forgets one's anger in mechanics or in cobwebs, it is a sign that the anger is not dangerous."
Michel Ardan then told the president how the captain had been found occupied.
"I put it to you now," said he in conclusion, "are two such good fellows as you are made on purpose to smash each other's skulls with shot?"
There was in "the situation" somewhat of the ridiculous, something quite unexpected;
Michel Ardan saw this, and determined to effect a reconciliation.
"My good friends," said he, with his most bewitching smile, "this is nothing but a misunderstanding.
Nothing more!
well!
to prove that it is all over between you, accept frankly the proposal I am going to make to you."
"Make it," said Nicholl.
"Our friend Barbicane believes that his projectile will go straight to the moon?"
"Yes, certainly," replied the president.
"And our friend Nicholl is persuaded it will fall back upon the earth?"
"I am certain of it," cried the captain.
"Good!" said Ardan.
" I cannot pretend to make you agree;
but I suggest this:
Go with me, and so see whether we are stopped on our journey."
"What?" exclaimed J. T. Maston, stupefied.
The two rivals, on this sudden proposal, looked steadily at each other.
Barbicane waited for the captain's answer.
Nicholl watched for the decision of the president.
"Well?" said Michel.
" There is now no fear of the shock!"
"Done!" cried Barbicane.
But quickly as he pronounced the word, he was not before Nicholl.
"Hurrah!
bravo!

hip! hip! hurrah!" cried Michel, giving a hand to each of the late adversaries.
" Now that it is all settled, my friends, allow me to treat you after French fashion.
Let us be off to breakfast!"
CHAPTER XXII

THE NEW CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES
That same day all America heard of the affair of Captain Nicholl and President Barbicane, as well as its singular _denouement_.

From that day forth, Michel Ardan had not one moment's rest.
Deputations from all corners of the Union harassed him without cessation or intermission.
He was compelled to receive them all, whether he would or no.
How many hands he shook, how many people he was "hail-fellow-well-met" with, it is impossible to guess!

Such a triumphal result would have intoxicated any other man; but he managed to keep himself in a state of delightful _semi_-tipsiness.
Among the deputations of all kinds which assailed him, that of "The Lunatics" were careful not to forget what they owed to the future conqueror of the moon.
One day, certain of these poor people, so numerous in America, came to call upon him, and requested permission to return with him to their native country.

"Singular hallucination!" said he to Barbicane, after having dismissed the deputation with promises to convey numbers of messages to friends in the moon.

" Do you believe in the influence of the moon upon distempers?"
"Scarcely!"
"No more do I, despite some remarkable recorded facts of history.
For instance, during an epidemic in 1693, a large number of persons died at the very moment of an eclipse.
The celebrated Bacon always fainted during an eclipse.
Charles VI relapsed six times into madness during the year 1399, sometimes during the new, sometimes during the full moon.

Gall observed that insane persons underwent an accession of their disorder twice in every month, at the epochs of new and full moon.
In fact, numerous observations made upon fevers, somnambulisms, and other human maladies, seem to prove that the moon does exercise some mysterious influence upon man."
"But the how and the wherefore?" asked Barbicane.

"Well, I can only give you the answer which Arago borrowed from Plutarch, which is nineteen centuries old.
`Perhaps the stories are not true!'"
In the height of his triumph, Michel Ardan had to encounter all the annoyances incidental to a man of celebrity.
Managers of entertainments wanted to exhibit him.
Barnum offered him a million dollars to make a tour of the United States in his show.

As for his photographs, they were sold of all size, and his portrait taken in every imaginable posture.
More than half a million copies were disposed of in an incredibly short space of time.

But it was not only the men who paid him homage, but the women as well.
He might have married well a hundred times over, if he had been willing to settle in life.
The old maids, in particular, of forty years and upward, and dry in proportion, devoured his photographs day and night.
They would have married him by hundreds, even if he had imposed upon them the condition of accompanying him into space.

He had, however, no intention of transplanting a race of Franco-Americans upon the surface of the moon.
He therefore declined all offers.

As soon as he could withdraw from these somewhat embarrassing demonstrations, he went, accompanied by his friends, to pay a visit to the Columbiad.

He was highly gratified by his inspection, and made the descent to the bottom of the tube of this gigantic machine which was presently to launch him to the regions of the moon.

It is necessary here to mention a proposal of J. T. Maston's.
When the secretary of the Gun Club found that Barbicane and Nicholl accepted the proposal of Michel Ardan, he determined to join them, and make one of a smug party of four.
So one day he determined to be admitted as one of the travelers.
Barbicane, pained at having to refuse him, gave him clearly to understand that the projectile could not possibly contain so many passengers.
Maston, in despair, went in search of Michel Ardan, who counseled him to resign himself to the situation, adding one or two arguments _ad hominem_.
"You see, old fellow," he said, "you must not take what I say in bad part;
but really, between ourselves, you are in too incomplete a condition to appear in the moon!"
"Incomplete?" shrieked the valiant invalid.
"Yes, my dear fellow!
imagine our meeting some of the inhabitants up there!
Would you like to give them such a melancholy notion of what goes on down here? to teach them what war is, to inform them that we employ our time chiefly in devouring each other, in smashing arms and legs, and that too on a globe which is capable of supporting a hundred billions of inhabitants, and which actually does contain nearly two hundred millions?
Why, my worthy friend, we should have to turn you out of doors!"
"But still, if you arrive there in pieces, you will be as incomplete as I am."
"Unquestionably," replied Michel Ardan; "but we shall not."
In fact, a preparatory experiment, tried on the 18th of October, had yielded the best results and caused the most well-grounded hopes of success.
Barbicane, desirous of obtaining some notion of the effect of the shock at the moment of the projectile's departure, had procured a 38-inch mortar from the arsenal of Pensacola.
He had this placed on the bank of Hillisborough Roads, in order that the shell might fall back into the sea, and the shock be thereby destroyed.
His object was to ascertain the extent of the shock of departure, and not that of the return.
A hollow projectile had been prepared for this curious experiment.
A thick padding fastened upon a kind of elastic network, made of the best steel, lined the inside of the walls.
It was a veritable _nest_ most carefully wadded.
"What a pity I can't find room in there," said J. T. Maston, regretting that his height did not allow of his trying the adventure.
Within this shell were shut up a large cat, and a squirrel belonging to J. T. Maston, and of which he was particularly fond.
They were desirous, however, of ascertaining how this little animal, least of all others subject to giddiness, would endure this experimental voyage.
The mortar was charged with 160 pounds of powder, and the shell placed in the chamber.
On being fired, the projectile rose with great velocity, described a majestic parabola, attained a height of about a thousand feet, and with a graceful curve descended in the midst of the vessels that lay there at anchor.
Without a moment's loss of time a small boat put off in the direction of its fall;
some divers plunged into the water and attached ropes to the handles of the shell, which was quickly dragged on board.
Five minutes did not elapse between the moment of enclosing the animals and that of unscrewing the coverlid of their prison.
Ardan, Barbicane, Maston, and Nicholl were present on board the boat, and assisted at the operation with an interest which may readily be comprehended.
Hardly had the shell been opened when the cat leaped out, slightly bruised, but full of life, and exhibiting no signs whatever of having made an aerial expedition.
No trace, however, of the squirrel could be discovered.
The truth at last became apparent--
the cat had eaten its fellow-traveler!
J. T. Maston grieved much for the loss of his poor squirrel, and proposed to add its case to that of other martyrs to science.
After this experiment all hesitation, all fear disappeared.
Besides, Barbicane's plans would ensure greater perfection for his projectile, and go far to annihilate altogether the effects of the shock.
Nothing now remained but to go!
Two days later Michel Ardan received a message from the President of the United States, an honor of which he showed himself especially sensible.
After the example of his illustrious fellow-countryman, the Marquis de la Fayette, the government had decreed to him the title of "Citizen of the United States of America."
CHAPTER XXIII

THE PROJECTILE-VEHICLE
On the completion of the Columbiad the public interest centered in the projectile itself, the vehicle which was destined to carry the three hardy adventurers into space.

The new plans had been sent to Breadwill and Co., of Albany, with the request for their speedy execution.
The projectile was consequently cast on the 2nd of November, and immediately forwarded by the Eastern Railway to Stones Hill, which it reached without accident on the 10th of that month, where Michel Ardan, Barbicane, and Nicholl were waiting impatiently for it.

The projectile had now to be filled to the depth of three feet with a bed of water, intended to support a water-tight wooden disc, which worked easily within the walls of the projectile.
It was upon this kind of raft that the travelers were to take their place.
This body of water was divided by horizontal partitions, which the shock of the departure would have to break in succession.
Then each sheet of the water, from the lowest to the highest, running off into escape tubes toward the top of the projectile, constituted a kind of spring; and the wooden disc, supplied with extremely powerful plugs, could not strike the lowest plate except after breaking successively the different partitions.
Undoubtedly the travelers would still have to encounter a violent recoil after the complete escapement of the water; but the first shock would be almost entirely destroyed by this powerful spring.

The upper parts of the walls were lined with a thick padding of leather, fastened upon springs of the best steel, behind which the escape tubes were completely concealed;
thus all imaginable precautions had been taken for averting the first shock; and if they did get crushed, they must, as Michel Ardan said, be made of very bad materials.

The entrance into this metallic tower was by a narrow aperture contrived in the wall of the cone.
This was hermetically closed by a plate of aluminum, fastened internally by powerful screw-pressure.
The travelers could therefore quit their prison at pleasure, as soon as they should reach the moon.

Light and view were given by means of four thick lenticular glass scuttles, two pierced in the circular wall itself, the third in the bottom, the fourth in the top.

These scuttles then were protected against the shock of departure by plates let into solid grooves, which could easily be opened outward by unscrewing them from the inside.

Reservoirs firmly fixed contained water and the necessary provisions;
and fire and light were procurable by means of gas, contained in a special reservoir under a pressure of several atmospheres.
They had only to turn a tap, and for six hours the gas would light and warm this comfortable vehicle.

There now remained only the question of air;
for allowing for the consumption of air by Barbicane, his two companions, and two dogs which he proposed taking with him, it was necessary to renew the air of the projectile.

Now air consists principally of twenty-one parts of oxygen and seventy-nine of nitrogen.

The lungs absorb the oxygen, which is indispensable for the support of life, and reject the nitrogen.
The air expired loses nearly five per cent. of the former and contains nearly an equal volume of carbonic acid, produced by the combustion of the elements of the blood.
In an air-tight enclosure, then, after a certain time, all the oxygen of the air will be replaced by the carbonic acid-- a gas fatal to life.
There were two things to be done then--
first, to replace the absorbed oxygen;
secondly, to destroy the expired carbonic acid;
both easy enough to do, by means of chlorate of potassium and caustic potash.
The former is a salt which appears under the form of white crystals;
when raised to a temperature of 400 degrees it is transformed into chlorure of potassium, and the oxygen which it contains is entirely liberated.
Now twenty-eight pounds of chlorate of potassium produces seven pounds of oxygen, or 2,400 litres-- the quantity necessary for the travelers during twenty-four hours.

Caustic potash has a great affinity for carbonic acid; and it is sufficient to shake it in order for it to seize upon the acid and form bicarbonate of potassium.

By these two means they would be enabled to restore to the vitiated air its life- supporting properties.

It is necessary, however, to add that the experiments had hitherto been made _in anima vili_.
Whatever its scientific accuracy was, they were at present ignorant how it would answer with human beings.

The honor of putting it to the proof was energetically claimed by J. T. Maston.
"Since I am not to go," said the brave artillerist, "I may at least live for a week in the projectile."
It would have been hard to refuse him;
so they consented to his wish.
A sufficient quantity of chlorate of potassium and of caustic potash was placed at his disposal, together with provisions for eight days.
And having shaken hands with his friends, on the 12th of November, at six o'clock A.M., after strictly informing them not to open his prison before the 20th, at six o'clock P.M., he slid down the projectile, the plate of which was at once hermetically sealed.
What did he do with himself during that week?
They could get no information.
The thickness of the walls of the projectile prevented any sound reaching from the inside to the outside.
On the 20th of November, at six P.M. exactly, the plate was opened.
The friends of J. T. Maston had been all along in a state of much anxiety;
but they were promptly reassured on hearing a jolly voice shouting a boisterous hurrah.
Presently afterward the secretary of the Gun Club appeared at the top of the cone in a triumphant attitude.
He had grown fat!
CHAPTER XXIV

THE TELESCOPE OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
On the 20th of October in the preceding year, after the close of the subscription, the president of the Gun Club had credited the Observatory of Cambridge with the necessary sums for the construction of a gigantic optical instrument.
This instrument was designed for the purpose of rendering visible on the surface of the moon any object exceeding nine feet in diameter.

At the period when the Gun Club essayed their great experiment, such instruments had reached a high degree of perfection, and produced some magnificent results.

Two telescopes in particular, at this time, were possessed of remarkable power and of gigantic dimensions.
The first, constructed by Herschel, was thirty-six feet in length, and had an object-glass of four feet six inches;
it possessed a magnifying power of 6,000.
The second was raised in Ireland, in Parsonstown Park, and belongs to Lord Rosse.
The length of this tube is forty-eight feet, and the diameter of its object-glass six feet;
it magnifies 6,400 times, and required an immense erection of brick work and masonry for the purpose of working it, its weight being twelve and a half tons.
Still, despite these colossal dimensions, the actual enlargements scarcely exceeded 6,000 times in round numbers;
consequently, the moon was brought within no nearer an apparent distance than thirty-nine miles; and objects of less than sixty feet in diameter, unless they were of very considerable length, were still imperceptible.
In the present case, dealing with a projectile nine feet in diameter and fifteen feet long, it became necessary to bring the moon within an apparent distance of five miles at most; and for that purpose to establish a magnifying power of 48,000 times.
Such was the question proposed to the Observatory of Cambridge,
There was no lack of funds;
the difficulty was purely one of construction.

After considerable discussion as to the best form and principle of the proposed instrument the work was finally commenced.
According to the calculations of the Observatory of Cambridge, the tube of the new reflector would require to be 280 feet in length, and the object-glass sixteen feet in diameter.
Colossal as these dimensions may appear, they were diminutive in comparison with the 10,000 foot telescope proposed by the astronomer Hooke only a few years ago!

Regarding the choice of locality, that matter was promptly determined.
The object was to select some lofty mountain, and there are not many of these in the United States.
In fact there are but two chains of moderate elevation, between which runs the magnificent Mississippi, the "king of rivers" as these Republican Yankees delight to call it.
Eastwards rise the Appalachians, the very highest point of which, in New Hampshire, does not exceed the very moderate altitude of 5,600 feet.
On the west, however, rise the Rocky Mountains, that immense range which, commencing at the Straights of Magellan, follows the western coast of Southern America under the name of the Andes or the Cordilleras, until it crosses the Isthmus of Panama, and runs up the whole of North America to the very borders of the Polar Sea.

The highest elevation of this range still does not exceed 10,700 feet.
With this elevation, nevertheless, the Gun Club were compelled to be content, inasmuch as they had determined that both telescope and Columbiad should be erected within the limits of the Union. All the necessary apparatus was consequently sent on to the summit of Long's Peak, in the territory of Missouri.
Neither pen nor language can describe the difficulties of all kinds which the American engineers had to surmount, of the prodigies of daring and skill which they accomplished.

They had to raise enormous stones, massive pieces of wrought iron, heavy corner-clamps and huge portions of cylinder, with an object-glass weighing nearly 30,000 pounds, above the line of perpetual snow for more than 10,000 feet in height, after crossing desert prairies, impenetrable forests, fearful rapids, far from all centers of population, and in the midst of savage regions, in which every detail of life becomes an almost insoluble problem.
And yet, notwithstanding these innumerable obstacles, American genius triumphed.
In less than a year after the commencement of the works, toward the close of September, the gigantic reflector rose into the air to a height of 280 feet.
It was raised by means of an enormous iron crane;
an ingenious mechanism allowed it to be easily worked toward all the points of the heavens, and to follow the stars from the one horizon to the other during their journey through the heavens.
It had cost $400,000.
The first time it was directed toward the moon the observers evinced both curiosity and anxiety.
What were they about to discover in the field of this telescope which magnified objects 48,000 times?
Would they perceive peoples, herds of lunar animals, towns, lakes, seas?
No! there was nothing which science had not already discovered! and on all the points of its disc the volcanic nature of the moon became determinable with the utmost precision.
But the telescope of the Rocky Mountains, before doing its duty to the Gun Club, rendered immense services to astronomy.
Thanks to its penetrative power, the depths of the heavens were sounded to the utmost extent; the apparent diameter of a great number of stars was accurately measured; and Mr. Clark, of the Cambridge staff, resolved the Crab nebula in Taurus, which the reflector of Lord Rosse had never been able to decompose.
CHAPTER XXV

FINAL DETAILS
It was the 22nd of November;
the departure was to take place in ten days.
One operation alone remained to be accomplished to bring all to a happy termination; an operation delicate and perilous, requiring infinite precautions, and against the success of which Captain Nicholl had laid his third bet.
It was, in fact, nothing less than the loading of the Columbiad, and the introduction into it of 400,000 pounds of gun-cotton.
Nicholl had thought, not perhaps without reason, that the handling of such formidable quantities of pyroxyle would, in all probability, involve a grave catastrophe; and at any rate, that this immense mass of eminently inflammable matter would inevitably ignite when submitted to the pressure of the projectile.
There were indeed dangers accruing as before from the carelessness of the Americans, but Barbicane had set his heart on success, and took all possible precautions.
In the first place, he was very careful as to the transportation of the gun-cotton to Stones Hill.
He had it conveyed in small quantities, carefully packed in sealed cases.

These were brought by rail from Tampa Town to the camp, and from thence were taken to the Columbiad by barefooted workmen, who deposited them in their places by means of cranes placed at the orifice of the cannon.
No steam-engine was permitted to work, and every fire was extinguished within two miles of the works.
Even in November they feared to work by day, lest the sun's rays acting on the gun-cotton might lead to unhappy results.
This led to their working at night, by light produced in a vacuum by means of Ruhmkorff's apparatus, which threw an artificial brightness into the depths of the Columbiad.
There the cartridges were arranged with the utmost regularity, connected by a metallic thread, destined to communicate to them all simultaneously the electric spark, by which means this mass of gun-cotton was eventually to be ignited.

By the 28th of November eight hundred cartridges had been placed in the bottom of the Columbiad.
So far the operation had been successful!
But what confusion, what anxieties, what struggles were undergone by President Barbicane!
In vain had he refused admission to Stones Hill;
every day the inquisitive neighbors scaled the palisades, some even carrying their imprudence to the point of smoking while surrounded by bales of gun-cotton.
Barbicane was in a perpetual state of alarm.
J. T. Maston seconded him to the best of his ability, by giving vigorous chase to the intruders, and carefully picking up the still lighted cigar ends which the Yankees threw about.
A somewhat difficult task! seeing that more than 300,000 persons were gathered round the enclosure.
Michel Ardan had volunteered to superintend the transport of the cartridges to the mouth of the Columbiad;
but the president, having surprised him with an enormous cigar in his mouth, while he was hunting out the rash spectators to whom he himself offered so dangerous an example, saw that he could not trust this fearless smoker, and was therefore obliged to mount a special guard over him.
At last, Providence being propitious, this wonderful loading came to a happy termination, Captain Nicholl's third bet being thus lost.
It remained now to introduce the projectile into the Columbiad, and to place it on its soft bed of gun-cotton.
But before doing this, all those things necessary for the journey had to be carefully arranged in the projectile vehicle.
These necessaries were numerous; and had Ardan been allowed to follow his own wishes, there would have been no space remaining for the travelers.
It is impossible to conceive of half the things this charming Frenchman wished to convey to the moon.
A veritable stock of useless trifles!
But Barbicane interfered and refused admission to anything not absolutely needed.
Several thermometers, barometers, and telescopes were packed in the instrument case.
The travelers being desirous of examing the moon carefully during their voyage, in order to facilitate their studies, they took with them Boeer and Moeller's excellent _Mappa Selenographica_, a masterpiece of patience and observation, which they hoped would enable them to identify those physical features in the moon, with which they were acquainted.
This map reproduced with scrupulous fidelity the smallest details of the lunar surface which faces the earth;
the mountains, valleys, craters, peaks, and ridges were all represented, with their exact dimensions, relative positions, and names; from the mountains Doerfel and Leibnitz on the eastern side of the disc, to the _Mare frigoris_ of the North Pole.

They took also three rifles and three fowling-pieces, and a large quantity of balls, shot, and powder.
"We cannot tell whom we shall have to deal with," said Michel Ardan.
" Men or beasts may possibly object to our visit.
It is only wise to take all precautions."
These defensive weapons were accompanied by pickaxes, crowbars, saws, and other useful implements, not to mention clothing adapted to every temperature, from that of polar regions to that of the torrid zone.
Ardan wished to convey a number of animals of different sorts, not indeed a pair of every known species, as he could not see the necessity of acclimatizing serpents, tigers, alligators, or any other noxious beasts in the moon.
" Nevertheless," he said to Barbicane, "some valuable and useful beasts, bullocks, cows, horses, and donkeys, would bear the journey very well, and would also be very useful to us."
"I dare say, my dear Ardan," replied the president, "but our projectile-vehicle is no Noah's ark, from which it differs both in dimensions and object.
Let us confine ourselves to possibilities."
After a prolonged discussion, it was agreed that the travelers should restrict themselves to a sporting-dog belonging to Nicholl, and to a large Newfoundland.
Several packets of seeds were also included among the necessaries.
Michel Ardan, indeed, was anxious to add some sacks full of earth to sow them in;
as it was, he took a dozen shrubs carefully wrapped up in straw to plant in the moon.
The important question of provisions still remained; it being necessary to provide against the possibility of their finding the moon absolutely barren.
Barbicane managed so successfully, that he supplied them with sufficient rations for a year.
These consisted of preserved meats and vegetables, reduced by strong hydraulic pressure to the smallest possible dimensions.

They were also supplied with brandy, and took water enough for two months, being confident, from astronomical observations, that there was no lack of water on the moon's surface.
As to provisions, doubtless the inhabitants of the _earth_ would find nourishment somewhere in the _moon_.
Ardan never questioned this;
indeed, had he done so, he would never have undertaken the journey.
"Besides," he said one day to his friends, "we shall not be completely abandoned by our terrestrial friends; they will take care not to forget us."
"No, indeed!" replied J. T. Maston.

"Nothing would be simpler," replied Ardan;
"the Columbiad will be always there.
Well!
whenever the moon is in a favorable condition as to the zenith, if not to the perigee, that is to say about once a year, could you not send us a shell packed with provisions, which we might expect on some appointed day?"
"Hurrah!
hurrah!" cried J. T. Matson; "what an ingenious fellow!
what a splendid idea!
Indeed, my good friends, we shall not forget you!"
"I shall reckon upon you!
Then, you see, we shall receive news regularly from the earth, and we shall indeed be stupid if we hit upon no plan for communicating with our good friends here!"
These words inspired such confidence, that Michel Ardan carried all the Gun Club with him in his enthusiasm.
What he said seemed so simple and so easy, so sure of success, that none could be so sordidly attached to this earth as to hesitate to follow the three travelers on their lunar expedition.

All being ready at last, it remained to place the projectile in the Columbiad, an operation abundantly accompanied by dangers and difficulties.
The enormous shell was conveyed to the summit of Stones Hill.
There, powerful cranes raised it, and held it suspended over the mouth of the cylinder.
It was a fearful moment!
What if the chains should break under its enormous weight? The sudden fall of such a body would inevitably cause the gun-cotton to explode!
Fortunately this did not happen; and some hours later the projectile-vehicle descended gently into the heart of the cannon and rested on its couch of pyroxyle, a veritable bed of explosive eider-down.
Its pressure had no result, other than the more effectual ramming down of the charge in the Columbiad.
"I have lost," said the captain, who forthwith paid President Barbicane the sum of three thousand dollars.
Barbicane did not wish to accept the money from one of his fellow-travelers, but gave way at last before the determination of Nicholl, who wished before leaving the earth to fulfill all his engagements.
"Now," said Michel Ardan, "I have only one thing more to wish for you, my brave captain."
"What is that?" asked Nicholl.
"It is that you may lose your two other bets!
Then we shall be sure not to be stopped on our journey!"
CHAPTER XXVI

FIRE!
The first of December had arrived! the fatal day! for, if the projectile were not discharged that very night at 10h. 48m. 40s. P.M., more than eighteen years must roll by before the moon would again present herself under the same conditions of zenith and perigee.
The weather was magnificent.
Despite the approach of winter, the sun shone brightly, and bathed in its radiant light that earth which three of its denizens were about to abandon for a new world.
How many persons lost their rest on the night which preceded this long-expected day!

All hearts beat with disquietude, save only the heart of Michel Ardan.
That imperturbable personage came and went with his habitual business-like air, while nothing whatever denoted that any unusual matter preoccupied his mind.

After dawn, an innumerable multitude covered the prairie which extends, as far as the eye can reach, round Stones Hill.
Every quarter of an hour the railway brought fresh accessions of sightseers;
and, according to the statement of the Tampa Town _Observer_, not less than five millions of spectators thronged the soil of Florida.
For a whole month previously, the mass of these persons had bivouacked round the enclosure, and laid the foundations for a town which was afterward called "Ardan's Town."
The whole plain was covered with huts, cottages, and tents.
Every nation under the sun was represented there;
and every language might be heard spoken at the same time.
It was a perfect Babel re-enacted.
All the various classes of American society were mingled together in terms of absolute equality.
Bankers, farmers, sailors, cotton-planters, brokers, merchants, watermen, magistrates, elbowed each other in the most free-and-easy way.
Louisiana Creoles fraternized with farmers from Indiana;
Kentucky and Tennessee gentlemen and haughty Virginians conversed with trappers and the half-savages of the lakes and butchers from Cincinnati.
Broad-brimmed white hats and Panamas, blue-cotton trousers, light-colored stockings, cambric frills, were all here displayed; while upon shirt-fronts, wristbands, and neckties, upon every finger, even upon the very ears, they wore an assortment of rings, shirt-pins, brooches, and trinkets, of which the value only equaled the execrable taste.
Women, children, and servants, in equally expensive dress, surrounded their husbands, fathers, or masters, who resembled the patriarchs of tribes in the midst of their immense households.
At meal-times all fell to work upon the dishes peculiar to the Southern States, and consumed with an appetite that threatened speedy exhaustion of the victualing powers of Florida, fricasseed frogs, stuffed monkey, fish chowder, underdone 'possum, and raccoon steaks.
And as for the liquors which accompanied this indigestible repast!
The shouts, the vociferations that resounded through the bars and taverns decorated with glasses, tankards, and bottles of marvelous shape, mortars for pounding sugar, and bundles of straws!
" Mint-julep" roars one of the barmen;
"Claret sangaree!" shouts another;

"Cocktail!"
" Brandy-smash!"
" Real mint-julep in the new style!"
All these cries intermingled produced a bewildering and deafening hubbub.
But on this day, 1st of December, such sounds were rare.

No one thought of eating or drinking, and at four P.M. there were vast numbers of spectators who had not even taken their customary lunch!
And, a still more significant fact, even the national passion for play seemed quelled for the time under the general excitement of the hour.

Up till nightfall, a dull, noiseless agitation, such as precedes great catastrophes, ran through the anxious multitude.
An indescribable uneasiness pervaded all minds, an indefinable sensation which oppressed the heart.
Every one wished it was over.
However, about seven o'clock, the heavy silence was dissipated.
The moon rose above the horizon.
Millions of hurrahs hailed her appearance.
She was punctual to the rendezvous, and shouts of welcome greeted her on all sides, as her pale beams shone gracefully in the clear heavens.
At this moment the three intrepid travelers appeared.
This was the signal for renewed cries of still greater intensity.
Instantly the vast assemblage, as with one accord, struck up the national hymn of the United States, and "Yankee Doodle," sung by five million of hearty throats, rose like a roaring tempest to the farthest limits of the atmosphere.
Then a profound silence reigned throughout the crowd.
The Frenchman and the two Americans had by this time entered the enclosure reserved in the center of the multitude.
They were accompanied by the members of the Gun Club, and by deputations sent from all the European Observatories.
Barbicane, cool and collected, was giving his final directions.
Nicholl, with compressed lips, his arms crossed behind his back, walked with a firm and measured step.
Michel Ardan, always easy, dressed in thorough traveler's costume, leathern gaiters on his legs, pouch by his side, in loose velvet suit, cigar in mouth, was full of inexhaustible gayety, laughing, joking, playing pranks with J. T. Maston. In one word, he was the thorough "Frenchman" (and worse, a "Parisian") to the last moment.
Ten o'clock struck!
The moment had arrived for taking their places in the projectile!
The necessary operations for the descent, and the subsequent removal of the cranes and scaffolding that inclined over the mouth of the Columbiad, required a certain period of time.
Barbicane had regulated his chronometer to the tenth part of a second by that of Murchison the engineer, who was charged with the duty of firing the gun by means of an electric spark.
Thus the travelers enclosed within the projectile were enabled to follow with their eyes the impassive needle which marked the precise moment of their departure.
The moment had arrived for saying "good-by!"
The scene was a touching one.
Despite his feverish gayety, even Michel Ardan was touched.
J. T. Maston had found in his own dry eyes one ancient tear, which he had doubtless reserved for the occasion.
He dropped it on the forehead of his dear president.
"Can I not go?" he said, "there is still time!"
"Impossible, old fellow!" replied Barbicane.
A few moments later, the three fellow-travelers had ensconced themselves in the projectile, and screwed down the plate which covered the entrance-aperture. The mouth of the Columbiad, now completely disencumbered, was open entirely to the sky.

The moon advanced upward in a heaven of the purest clearness, outshining in her passage the twinkling light of the stars.
She passed over the constellation of the Twins, and was now nearing the halfway point between the horizon and the zenith.

A terrible silence weighed upon the entire scene!
Not a breath of wind upon the earth!
not a sound of breathing from the countless chests of the spectators!
Their hearts seemed afraid to beat!
All eyes were fixed upon the yawning mouth of the Columbiad.
Murchison followed with his eye the hand of his chronometer.
It wanted scarce forty seconds to the moment of departure, but each second seemed to last an age!
At the twentieth there was a general shudder, as it occurred to the minds of that vast assemblage that the bold travelers shut up within the projectile were also counting those terrible seconds.
Some few cries here and there escaped the crowd.
"Thirty-five! --
thirty-six! --
thirty-seven! --
thirty-eight! --
thirty-nine! --
forty!
FIRE!!!"
Instantly Murchison pressed with his finger the key of the electric battery, restored the current of the fluid, and discharged the spark into the breech of the Columbiad.
An appalling unearthly report followed instantly, such as can be compared to nothing whatever known, not even to the roar of thunder, or the blast of volcanic explosions! No words can convey the slightest idea of the terrific sound!
An immense spout of fire shot up from the bowels of the earth as from a crater.
The earth heaved up, and with great difficulty some few spectators obtained a momentary glimpse of the projectile victoriously cleaving the air in the midst of the fiery vapors!
CHAPTER XXVII

FOUL WEATHER
At the moment when that pyramid of fire rose to a prodigious height into the air, the glare of flame lit up the whole of Florida; and for a moment day superseded night over a considerable extent of the country.
This immense canopy of fire was perceived at a distance of one hundred miles out at sea, and more than one ship's captain entered in his log the appearance of this gigantic meteor.
The discharge of the Columbiad was accompanied by a perfect earthquake.
Florida was shaken to its very depths.
The gases of the powder, expanded by heat, forced back the atmospheric strata with tremendous violence, and this artificial hurricane rushed like a water-spout through the air.
Not a single spectator remained on his feet!
Men, women children, all lay prostrate like ears of corn under a tempest.
There ensued a terrible tumult; a large number of persons were seriously injured. J. T. Maston, who, despite all dictates of prudence, had kept in advance of the mass, was pitched back 120 feet, shooting like a projectile over the heads of his fellow-citizens.
Three hundred thousand persons remained deaf for a time, and as though struck stupefied.

As soon as the first effects were over, the injured, the deaf, and lastly, the crowd in general, woke up with frenzied cries.
" Hurrah for Ardan!
Hurrah for Barbicane!
Hurrah for Nicholl!" rose to the skies.
Thousands of persons, noses in air, armed with telescopes and race-glasses, were questioning space, forgetting all contusions and emotions in the one idea of watching for the projectile.
They looked in vain!
It was no longer to be seen, and they were obliged to wait for telegrams from Long's Peak.
The director of the Cambridge Observatory was at his post on the Rocky Mountains; and to him, as a skillful and persevering astronomer, all observations had been confided.
But an unforeseen phenomenon came in to subject the public impatience to a severe trial.
The weather, hitherto so fine, suddenly changed;
the sky became heavy with clouds.
It could not have been otherwise after the terrible derangement of the atmospheric strata, and the dispersion of the enormous quantity of vapor arising from the combustion of 200,000 pounds of pyroxyle!

On the morrow the horizon was covered with clouds-- a thick and impenetrable curtain between earth and sky, which unhappily extended as far as the Rocky Mountains.
It was a fatality!

But since man had chosen so to disturb the atmosphere, he was bound to accept the consequences of his experiment.

Supposing, now, that the experiment had succeeded, the travelers having started on the 1st of December, at 10h. 46m. 40s. P.M., were due on the 4th at 0h. P.M. at their destination.
So that up to that time it would have been very difficult after all to have observed, under such conditions, a body so small as the shell. Therefore they waited with what patience they might.
From the 4th to the 6th of December inclusive, the weather remaining much the same in America, the great European instruments of Herschel, Rosse, and Foucault, were constantly directed toward the moon, for the weather was then magnificent;
but the comparative weakness of their glasses prevented any trustworthy observations being made.

On the 7th the sky seemed to lighten.
They were in hopes now, but their hope was of but short duration, and at night again thick clouds hid the starry vault from all eyes.

Matters were now becoming serious, when on the 9th the sun reappeared for an instant, as if for the purpose of teasing the Americans.
It was received with hisses; and wounded, no doubt, by such a reception, showed itself very sparing of its rays.
On the 10th, no change!
J. T. Maston went nearly mad, and great fears were entertained regarding the brain of this worthy individual, which had hitherto been so well preserved within his gutta-percha cranium.
But on the 11th one of those inexplicable tempests peculiar to those intertropical regions was let loose in the atmosphere.
A terrific east wind swept away the groups of clouds which had been so long gathering, and at night the semi-disc of the orb of night rode majestically amid the soft constellations of the sky.
CHAPTER XXVIII

A NEW STAR
That very night, the startling news so impatiently awaited, burst like a thunderbolt over the United States of the Union, and thence, darting across the ocean, ran through all the telegraphic wires of the globe.
The projectile had been detected, thanks to the gigantic reflector of Long's Peak!
Here is the note received by the director of the Observatory of Cambridge.
It contains the scientific conclusion regarding this great experiment of the Gun Club.
LONG'S PEAK, December 12.
To the Officers of the Observatory of Cambridge.
The projectile discharged by the Columbiad at Stones Hill has been detected by Messrs. Belfast and J. T. Maston, 12th of December, at 8:47 P.M., the moon having entered her last quarter.
This projectile has not arrived at its destination.
It has passed by the side; but sufficiently near to be retained by the lunar attraction.
The rectilinear movement has thus become changed into a circular motion of extreme velocity, and it is now pursuing an elliptical orbit round the moon, of which it has become a true satellite.
The elements of this new star we have as yet been unable to determine;
we do not yet know the velocity of its passage.
The distance which separates it from the surface of the moon may be estimated at about 2,833 miles.
However, two hypotheses come here into our consideration.
1. Either the attraction of the moon will end by drawing them into itself, and the travelers will attain their destination;
or, 2. The projectile, following an immutable law, will continue to gravitate round the moon till the end of time.
At some future time, our observations will be able to determine this point, but till then the experiment of the Gun Club can have no other result than to have provided our solar system with a new star.
J. BELFAST.
To how many questions did this unexpected _denouement_ give rise?
What mysterious results was the future reserving for the investigation of science?

At all events, the names of Nicholl, Barbicane, and Michel Ardan were certain to be immortalized in the annals of astronomy!
When the dispatch from Long's Peak had once become known, there was but one universal feeling of surprise and alarm.
Was it possible to go to the aid of these bold travelers?
No! for they had placed themselves beyond the pale of humanity, by crossing the limits imposed by the Creator on his earthly creatures.
They had air enough for _two_ months;
they had victuals enough for _twelve;--
but after that? _

There was only one man who would not admit that the situation was desperate--
he alone had confidence; and that was their devoted friend J. T. Maston.
Besides, he never let them get out of sight.
His home was henceforth the post at Long's Peak;
his horizon, the mirror of that immense reflector.
As soon as the moon rose above the horizon, he immediately caught her in the field of the telescope; he never let her go for an instant out of his sight, and followed her assiduously in her course through the stellar spaces.
He watched with untiring patience the passage of the projectile across her silvery disc, and really the worthy man remained in perpetual communication with his three friends, whom he did not despair of seeing again some day.

"Those three men," said he, "have carried into space all the resources of art, science, and industry.
With that, one can do anything; and you will see that, some day, they will come out all right."
